Guests of Honor

William Gibson

Larry McCaffery

Memorial Guest of Honor: Alfred Bester

July 12-14, 1996

Marriott Westborough

   * Notes from the Chair
   * About the Guests
   * About the Convention
   * Bake Sale
   * Hotel Information
   * Getting There
   * Who's Coming?
   * The Program

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Notes from the Chair

We've said from the beginning that Readercon was envisioned as something
different, a serious conference on imaginative literature. This is as true
today as it was for the first Readercon. And we have all of you to thank for
our success. We are very pleased to have William Gibson and Larry McCaffery as
our Guests of Honor this year and are looking forward to July.

For those of you who have never been to a Readercon, we bring together readers
for a weekend with those who write, edit, publish, illustrate, critique, and
market imaginative literature. We include authors whose works are not marketed
as conventional science fiction or fantasy. Our Guests of Honor and pros pursue
a highly personal vision of the possibilities of imaginative literature. But
remember, serious does not mean stuffy; we embrace the subversive notion that
thinking is fun. So, if munching on an endless supply of chocolate-chocolate
chip cookies, biscotti, and cheesecake while listening to or participating in
one of our panels sounds like your idea of a great time, I'll see you in July.

To all those people who have taken the time to let us know that they missed us
last year, we send our thanks. I wish we could say that we were back tanned,
rested, and caught up on our reading; but I'll just say that at least we had
more time to read during 1995.

Guests of Honor

Like many wannabe SF writers in the summer of 1977 I was there at the very
beginning, which was the third issue of a magazine called Unearth. Unearth only
printed stories by previously unpublished writers, so we were the core audience
and possibly the only audience. The cover story of issue three was "Fragments
of a Hologram Rose" by William Gibson.

Re-reading it now, it's much more of a William Gibson story than it was then, a
small and elliptical slice of his now-familiar world, just as the byline itself
is now instantly recognizable instead of almost instantly forgettable, but even
as an anonymous and self-contained work it stood out from the rest of the
issue. Exquisitely crafted but dense to the point of difficulty, substituting
the unfolding of static memory for beginning-middle-end, a dystopia only made
more vivid by the exhilarating clarity and science-fictional niftiness, it was
aggressively literary, and seemed stuck in Unearth not because it was unskilled
but because it was uncommercial, too "academic" and "downbeat" for the
aggressively anti-literary publishing climate of the time. I'd like to claim
that I knew better, but if you had asked me at the time I would have come up
with the same verdict Gibson did, that he would be a commercially marginal cult
author at best.

Instead, he beat the beginning-middle-end crowd at their own game. His instant
rise is so much a part of the lore of the field that I feel as if I was there
for that too, but in reality the next time I read anything by Gibson was in
September 1985, far along the rapid pop-star trajectory of his career, when the
Hugo and Nebula had finally bumped Neuromancer to the top of my reading pile.

It would be the last time I'd put off reading anything with his name on it.
Reading Gibson was a hedonistic experience. Many authors obey a puritanical
ethos: reading them is the work you perform in order to earn the reward of
aesthetic pleasure when the story is done and the full design is revealed.
Gibson's fiction offers that kind of reward, but---and I suspect this is what
makes most of his critics uneasy---the text is intensely pleasurable in itself.
Mentally engaging his electric language and imagery and thought is a high.

Like many readers in the fall of 1985 who had caught on late, after Neuromancer
I scrambled to find his short stories, not yet collected in Burning Chrome, and
learn anything I could about the author. That kind of curiosity is the
objective precondition of media stardom. Since Gibson isn't the first SF writer
to fulfill it, the full why and how remain a subject of debate. It's never
bothered me, though, if only because it seems natural that a writer whose
greatest fascination is the pop culture apparatus should fascinate the pop
culture apparatus in return.

Meanwhile, Gibson has written three more novels, Count Zero, Mona Lisa
Overdrive, and Virtual Light, and a collaboration with Bruce Sterling, The
Difference Engine. I suggested that "Fragments of a Hologram Rose" was less of
a William Gibson story when it was published than now, and that seems to happen
eventually to all his work. That is, my understanding of it keeps changing. In
1986 I could write of Neuromancer: "But the most interesting thing about Gibson
is his unusual attitude to his high-tech SF innovations. Almost all his
characters are cyborgs, constructs, or clones, but none of them have identity
problems. Gibson is pro-technology and pro-change. His characters have all
adapted to his future, and most are excited by the new possibilities it opens."
Writing in 1991, my view had completely reversed: "The technology, simstim and
cyberspace, is memory concretized. The characters are haunted by memory. Some
live in memory-worlds. Some are memory-things...The stylistic feel of his work,
that elegant, bluesy emotion that lies underneath the cool of the writing like
water under ice, is suddenly clarified; it is based on the emotions associated
with memory: nostalgia and regret." Now, after Virtual Light, with its great
symbol of the bridge, it has been changed again. The retroactive deepening
continues.

This process makes William Gibson a particularly exciting Guest of Honor. I
expect to walk away from Readercon 8 with a body of work that is more complex
still. Besides---who knows?---I may get to steal one of the sheets from his
bed.

---Barnaby Rapoport

Larry McCaffery has spent the last twenty years of his professional career
digging into the zeitgeistial strata underlying contemporary literature. He's
been looking deep into the connections and meanings of cultural debris such as
popular music, art, TV commercials, film (both sacred and profane),
pornography, polemics, fashion---you can add to this list yourself. For a
literature professor, he's amazingly open-minded, willing to accept whatever he
runs across at face value and (more importantly) teasing out the cross-cultural
web of influence---nothing is ever written in a vacuum.

For our purposes here, one major field of his study has been genre fiction,
science fiction in particular, and specifically that contentious offshoot of
SF, cyberpunk. He was one of the first academics to grasp the true significance
of the work of our Guest of Honor; the distorted metaphoric lens he wields and
the cultural recombinations that delight him.

McCaffery has published quite a bit of material, but two of his books are
important to you and me, right now, right in this exact moment. His 1991
anthology of fictions and essay, Storming the Reality Studio: A Casebook of
Cyberpunk and Postmodern Fiction (Duke University Press) remains, perhaps, the
only truly necessary such collection amid an academic spew. He has just
published another anthology, After Yesterday's Crash: The Avant-Pop Anthology,
(Penguin, 1995) which raises the ante, stakes out new territory. It is perhaps
the only true "post-cyberpunk" collection so far.

If you don't believe me, if you don't understand (and I'm not sure I do,
entirely), if you're wondering what all the fuss is about . . . well, I'm out
of space here. Get these two books and read Larry's extensive introductions.
You won't find any other academic essays filled with as much authentic passion,
wit, intelligence and clarity. Then show up at Readercon and argue with him.

---Stephen P. Brown

The Program

The Program is not just the heart and soul of Readercon, it's most of the
internal organs, several appendages, and perhaps a tattoo. We try to think of
panels and events no one has ever done and put fresh new twists on the ones
they have. From what folks tell us, we succeed. While most cons leave you (and
all too often the panelists) guessing what the panels are about, we provide
full descriptions not only in the Program Guide but in this progress report.

Our regular programming consists of four or five simultaneous tracks running
from 6 to 9 PM on Friday, 10 AM to 5 PM on Saturday, and 11 AM to 4 PM on
Sunday. There are panel discussions in two large rooms, each with a stage with
easy chairs and coffee tables, and area microphones to pick up all the
panelists' dialogue. Two smaller rooms feature author readings and a writer's
mini-track of panels and how-I-wrote-my-book presentations. A third small room
hosts occasional discussion groups, often on off-the-wall topics (if you'd like
to lead one, let us know).

Our Special Events start Friday evening with our Meet the Pros(e) Party, where
you get to meet the writers and their writing, and commit Art (How? See the
events listing). After our last Saturday panel there's nothing but special
events. There will be an interview with (and by) our Guests of Honor, and a
special Best of the Kirk Poland Memorial Bad Prose Competitions, a brief
history of our most popular event.

Banquet

We want to have a Banquet that actually has something to do with reading. How?
You may ask. Easy, we answer. Discussion groups! We'll have a list of topics at
Readercon Sales (along with tickets). You'll be asked to make several choices,
and we'll arrange the tables accordingly. Discuss all you want, eat, make new
friends, and there won't be any quiz. Though if you want to get up and announce
the results of your discussion, the rest of us will (possibly) quiet down long
enough to listen to you.

Be prepared to choose several topics---we'll have more listed than we can have
tables, and we have no idea how many people will want to discuss what. Oh, and
we'll have signs on the tables with the discussion group names, so a little
circulation will be allowed.

Banquet tickets will cost $15. We'll be having a barbeque outside on a patio,
with the grills right there. More details on the food will be available at-con.

Our current list of discussion topics includes: William Gibson, Larry
McCaffery, Alfred Bester, Samuel R. Delany, Ursula K. Le Guin, James Tiptree,
Jr., cyberpunk, ribofunk, deconstructionism, New York Review of Science
Fiction, Crank!,Theodore Sturgeon, John Clute's SF Encyclopedia, R.A. Lafferty,
and H.P. Lovecraft. Feel free to suggest more---send email to
<aadler@kinesisinc.com> , or regular mail to our post office box.

Writers' Workshop

Once again we'll be hosting a three-hour closed writers' workshop for a few
amateurs or new pros, led by David Alexander Smith. It will probably happen on
Sunday morning at 8:30 AM. Submit up to 7,500 words of fiction (self-contained
short story, chapters from a novel, or an outline) by June 30 directly to David
at: 112 Avon Hill Street, Cambridge, MA 02140 For more information, write to
David or call him at 617-661-3323.

The Bookshop

The Bookshop is our dealers' room. Expect a varied selection of new and used
books and magazines from small and large publishers. There may still be a
couple of tables available. If you're interested, contact us immediately.

KaffeeKlatsches

What is a KaffeeKlatsch?

KaffeeKlatsches are not lectures.

KaffeeKlatsches are not panels.

KaffeeKlatsches are small gatherings of fans, writers, editors, artists, etc.,
chatting in an informal group.

KaffeeKlatsches are quiet conversation and a darn good cup'a joe.

Publications

Our Program Guide usually runs 30 or 40 pages. In it you'll find the full
conference schedule with panel precis and an index of each participant's
appearances, plus a wide variety of useful information. In the back there are
mini-bibliographies of every participant---that's right, all of their book
titles with dates and publishers, and then some. For those who prefer to travel
light, we provide a simple pocket schedule in table form.

Last time our Souvenir Book had a non-ad page count that matched the
Worldcon's. Our book will have original material by and about our Guests, more
installments of our regular "Books to Cherish" feature, original artwork, and
much more.

We won't be having an at-con newsletter this year, but don't worry---we'll keep
you updated on last-minute program changes.

The Tiptree Award Bake Sale

Readercon joins other conventions across the country in raising funds for this
award the old-fashioned way: with a bake sale. (We will also be selling copies
of the two benefit cookbooks The Bakery Men Don't See and Her Smoke Rose Up
From Supper.) If you'd like to donate goodies and/or help sell them, contact
Jamie Siglar at 617-623-0601 or send email to <jasiglar@tiac.net>

The Fifth Tiptree Award was presented at WisCon 20.

At Readercon 7, a few writers and critics donated their review books (galley
proofs, advance reading copies, etc.) to the bake sale table. The books
disappeared in minutes, but left us with a good idea: If you have review copies
you'd like to contribute to the sale effort, please remember to bring them with
you.

Our Hotel

The Marriott Westborough is a new location for us, but with familiar staff-many
of the people we knew at the Worcester Marriott are working t here, and they're
happy to have us. We recommend that you make your reservations early-many
people arrived at Readercon 7 without having done so at all and were surprised
to find the hotel full, and we don't want that to happen again.

The room rate is $70 for a single or a double -- none of the rooms is larger
than a double.

The Marriott Westborough is located at 5400 Computer Drive in Westborough, MA
(Phone: 508-366-5511).

Getting There

By Car, by Limousine, or by Bus

By Car

From Boston: Massachusetts Turnpike (I-90) West to 495 North (exit 11A) to 9
West (exit 23B) to Computer Drive (first exit). Bear right to hotel.

From Worcester: Route 9 East to Computer Drive. Three rights then 1/2 mile
straight to the hotel.

From Sturbridge: Massachusetts Turnpike (I-90) East to 495 North (exit 11A) to
9 West (exit 23B) to Computer Drive (first exit). Bear right to hotel.

From 495 North or South: 495 to Route 9 West (Exit 23B) to Computer Drive
(first exit). Bear right to hotel.

From New York or New Jersey Turnpike: 95 North to 91 North (New Haven, CT) to
84 East (Hartford, CT) to Massachusetts Turnpike (I-90) East to 495 North (exit
11A) to 9 West (exit 23B) to Computer Drive (first exit). Bear right to hotel.

From New Hampshire: 93 South to 495 South to Route 9 West (exit 23B) to
Computer Drive (first exit). Bear right to hotel.

From Rhode Island: 95 North to 495 North to Route 9 West (exit 23B) to Computer
Drive (first exit). Bear right to hotel.

By Limousine

The Marlborough-Westborough Shuttle provides limousine service from Logan
Airport and downtown Boston. They may be reached by phone at: 800-242-0064 or
508-481-7300. The price is $20 for adults, $15 for seniors. Vans run every 90
minutes from 6:15 AM to 10:45 PM seven days a week. Passengers can pick up vans
at one of the ground transportation stops located in front of every terminal.

By Bus

Peter Pan Bus Lines provides local service to Westborough from Boston and
Worcester every 2 hours. They may be reached by phone at: 800-343-9999. One-way
fares: $4.80 (from Boston) and $2.40 (from Worcester). Buses on both routes
stop directly at the Marriott.

Membership

You're getting this Progress Report either because you've already bought a
membership in Readercon 8 or because you're on our mailing list. If your
mailing label says "Pre-paid member" on it, you've already bought a membership.
Otherwise, you can buy one in advance by filling out the form on page 7 and
sending us a check. At-the-door memberships will cost $50. If you've already
bought a Readercon membership but find you cannot attend, you may transfer your
membership to another person. We ask that you notify us of the transfer to
eliminate confusion at registration. Either drop us a line at our post office
box or email your notification to <zeno@mit.edu>

The Con Suite

The Con Suite is Readercon's own party, where you'll find munchies both
nutritious and politically incorrect, and people to talk to (there is a causal
relationship here). We try to keep it open during all convention hours (with a
little help from volunteers).

Volunteering

Readercon is run entirely by volunteers. We can always use more help, in every
area. If you're new to conventions, volunteering is a great and time-tested way
to meet people. Let us know you're interested on the form below, and we'll
contact you about scheduling you in the areas you'd like to work-or you can
just volunteer at the con (although the most interesting jobs may be taken by
then). Work enough hours and you'll earn some cool thing or other.

(Some) Policies
* No smoking in programming areas or the Bookshop.
* Only guide animals in convention areas.
* No weapons in convention areas.
* Young children who are always with an adult are admitted for free; others
need a membership. Readercon does not have children's programming or
babysitting (but see the next section).

Babysitting

Every year we seem to acquire more young fans. We don't have the resources to
care for them ourselves, but if any parents out there want to organize a
babysitting cooperative, we'll help you get in touch with each other. Just let
us know who you are.

A Tentative Schedule

Friday hours:

   * Program 6:00 PM to 9:00 PM
   * Registration 4:00 PM to 9:00 PM
   * Bookshop 4:00 PM to 9:00 PM

Saturday hours:

   * Program 10:00 AM to 9:00 PM (with breaks)
   * Registration 9:00 AM to 6:00 PM
   * Bookshop 10:00 AM to 7:00 PM

Sunday hours:

   * Program 11:00 AM to 4:00 PM
   * Registration 10:00 AM to 2:00 PM
   * Bookshop 10:00 AM to 3:00 PM

Who's Coming to Readercon 8?

Ellen Asher, Lisa A. Barnett, Terry Bisson, Bernadette Bosky, Stephen P. Brown,
Michael Brustein, Ginjer Buchanan, Algis Budrys, Jeffrey Carver, Suzy McKee
Charnas, Bryan Cholfin, Hal Clement, John Clute, F. Brett Cox, Kathryn Cramer,
Shira Daemon, Don D'Ammassa, Daniel P. Dern, Paul DiFilippo, Tom Easton, Scott
Edelman, Janice Eisen, Lise Eisenberg, Moshe Feder, Gregory Feeley, Jeri
Freedman, Craig Shaw Gardner, Greer Ilene Gilman, Glenn Grant, Geary Gravel,
Sinda Gregory, Eileen Gunn, Elizabeth Hand, Nancy Hanger, David Hartwell,
Patrick Nielsen Hayden, Teresa Nielsen Hayden, Jeff Hecht, Connie Hirsch,
Arthur D. Hlavaty, Alexander Jablokov, Michael Kandel, Don Keller, Angela Gale
Kessler, Rob Killheffer, Donald Kingsbury, Rosemary Kirstein, Mari Kotani,
Nancy Kress, Ellen Kushner, Lissanne Lake, Waren Lapine, Shariann Lewitt, Barry
Malzberg, Joe Mayhew, Peter McNamara, Ed Meskys, Th. Metzger, Yves Meynard,
James Morrow, Rebecca Ore, Paul Park, Rachel Pollack, Kit Reed, Katya Reimann,
Paul T. Riddell, J .F. Rivkin, Charles C. Ryan, Felicity Savage, Darrell
Schweitzer, Melissa Scott, eluki bes shahar, Delia Sherman, Cortney Skinner,
David Alexander Smith, Sarah Smith, Martha Soukup, Jennifer K. Stevenson,
Susanna Sturgis, Takayuki Tatsumi, Jean-Louis Trudel, Gordon Van Gelder, Anne
Tonsor Zeddies, Joey Zone

The Program

This is a semi-final list of program items. A few may go away, and a few may be
added, but on the whole, this is it.

The Science Fiction of William Gibson.

The Science Fiction of Alfred Bester.

Bookaholics Anonymous. Allegations continue about this most controversial of
all 12-step groups. It has been suggested by some that despite the appearance
of self-approbation, despite the formal public proclamations by members that
they find their behavior humiliating and intend to change it, this group in
fact secretly encourages its members to succumb to their addiction. The shame,
in other words, is a sham. Within the subtext of the members' pathetic
testimony, it is claimed, all the worst vices are covertly endorsed:
book-buying, book-hoarding, book-stacking, book-smelling, book-loving, even
book-reading. Could this be true? Come and testify yourself. Then you tell us.

Affirmative Action and Adventure: Women in SF. Eight of the last ten winners of
the Campbell Award for best new writer have been women. The Hugo Award for best
novel has been won by a woman in five of the last seven years. Indeed, the SF
field has quietly become one of the most egalitarian in all the arts. But has
this progress been reflected on the page?

From Metafiction and Cyberpunk through Avant-Pop. "Avant-Pop is a radical,
ideological critique of what the avant-garde and pop culture are--and what they
can and should be doing during the age of po-mo and hyperconsumption." Larry
McCaffery and company plot how to storm the reality studio and take over the
universe.

The Books We Really Read. Is there frequently a difference between our favorite
writers and those whom we consider the best writers? If so, why?

SF Magazines You Should Be Reading.

Transcendence or Immanence? In the October '95 issue of NYRSF, F. Brett Cox
argues that fictions as superficially disparate as John Kessel's and Bruce
Sterling's share ". . .a rejection of transcendence and an embrace of
immanence, a belief that the fundamental achievement of SF---telling us that
there will be a tomorrow, and it will be different from today---can be best
maintained not by escaping from this world---which, if not 'quite
satisfactory,' is the only one we've got---but by embracing it." This is
clearly a useful distinction to make when looking at today's SF: just how
useful, we'll explore.

Catching the Next Wave. The field seems to be in a transition from cyberpunk's
influence toEsomething else. Is it avant-pop, transrealism, ribofunk? Where are
we headed?

Is Fiction Inherently Evil (and If So, What's My Job)? Simone Weil (in
"Morality and Literature") argued that fiction is inherently immoral because it
reverses the truth about good and evil: in reality, good is "beautiful and
wonderful" and evil is "dreary, monotonous," but in fiction, it is evil that is
"varied and intriguing, attractive, profound. . . " while good is "boring and
flat." Certainly we can all think of counter-examples (To Kill a Mockingbird
gets it right), but this is a problem as old as Milton. Does a writer have an
obligation to try to make goodness interesting, and to show the banality of
evil? How does doing so affect the fiction?

The Fascination of What's Excruciating. Why do we enjoy reading about
experiences (e.g., floundering in the ash-pits outside Mordor) which we would
never want to actually live through?

Attack of the 50-Foot Fortitude: Character Growth and SF. In "The Secret
Language of Science Fiction," Algis Budrys argues that SF fans place an undue
emphasis on character growth of the most obvious sort: that a story in which no
one "learns better," for instance, will never be an award-winner. True? And if
so, why? Isn't this a problem?

From Boredom to Horror. "The boredom of the middle classes of the developed
nations, particularly of the American middle class, is the most dangerous force
in the world today." (John Snow, A Vocation to Risk). Hasn't some of our best
horror fiction begun to reflect this?

Everyone's Doing Comics But You, Part II. Our ongoing survey of the field.

The Future of the Arts Underground. What impact will changing technology and
corporate politics have on the relationship between mass culture and the
underground, which is so vital to the evolution of the arts? What can we learn
from the recent "revolution" in popular music (if co-opting the alternative is
really revolutionary)?

Your Book Was So Good I Forgot It Completely: Fiction as Dream. Must all great
fiction be memorable? Or can a truly fantastic work of literature defy easy
recall?

Old Fiction, New Technologies. How will new technologies change the experience
of reading conventional texts? For instance, how does knowing how far you are
from the end influence the way we perceive a narrative? Will ferreting out all
the clues in Gene Wolfe's fiction (or any mystery) be as rewarding when we can
do it in forty seconds with our fancy search engine?

Everything In an F/SF Novel Should Be Mentioned Once/Twice/Again and Again. Is
there such a thing as too much invention? Too little? Can all those different
clever bits of background detail actually become a distraction? Can we use them
once and throw them away, or should we strive to get more mileage out of them
(and how much is too much)?

The Catharsis of Myth, the Shock of Invention. In writing or reading fiction,
we place a high value on the degree to which the plot unfolds in unexpected
ways. But much of the power of myth and fairy tale derives from the way it
fulfills our expectations. How do the best works of fantasy reconcile these
seeming opposites?

Another Party Uninvited To. Granta magazine recently held a contest to identify
"The Best Young Novelists in the United States." Naturally, there are no
writers of speculative fiction among the 52 finalists (and they can hardly
plead ignorance, not with Jonathan Lethem's first two novels getting raves in
Newsweek). Two possible responses: this is precisely the sort of discrimination
that the civil rights movement was all about, and deserves the same sort of
activist response; or, any club too stupid to ask me to join isn't worth
belonging too. Where do you stand (and what do we do)?

Put This in Bartlett's! Genre F/SF is represented in Bartlett's by exactly two
writers (Tolkien and Le Guin) and four quotes. That's right, no Clarke's Law,
no Sturgeon's Law, nothing by nobody else. What are the quotes that we in the
field are genuinely familiar with? And remembering that many quotes in
Bartlett's aren't actually familiar to anyone, just real good, what quotes can
we find to represent our major writers?

A Book By Its Cover. How does the art used on SF & Fantasy books shape the
public's perceptions of what lies within? Are there alternatives? Cortney
Skinner takes us on a tour of the different approaches that have been taken in
packaging SF & Fantasy over the years.

The Science Fiction of Roger Zelazny.

The Science Fiction of John Brunner.

Frontiers of Criticism: Beyond Characterization. In a NYRSF editorial (12/94),
David Hartwell complains that SF criticism now increasingly concerns itself
with characterization at the expense of other story values---namely, those
central to SF. Our panelist critics either defend themselves or accuse their
absent colleagues.

Space Opera Reconsidered. A discussion of the "special pitfalls [and] special
advantages" (Joe Sanders, 6/95 NYRSF) of this oft-maligned yet enduring SF
subgenre.

Transrealism. Rudy Rucker postulated this new literary mode way back in 1983,
and in the 5/95 NYRSF, Damien Broderick championed it. Transrealism (if we
understand them correctly) happens when fantastic worlds are peopled by
characters portrayed with the most extreme psychological techniques of realist
fiction. Dick, Pynchon, Ballard, Joanna Russ, James Morrow, Iain Banks,
Jonathan Carroll, Martin Amis, Lisa Goldstein, John Calvin Batchelor, Margaret
Atwood . . . who else? Have Rucker and Broderick come up with a truly useful
classification here?

The New Grand Masters Revisited. A follow-up to the 1994 Philcon panel in which
"new grand masters" from more recent decades were suggested. Moderator David
Hartwell suggested a list of questions that needed to be asked about the
choices (in the 3/95 NYRSF): 1) What prejudices might be operating in the minds
of the panelists to come to such conclusions? It seems evident that the writing
of some high quality fiction or a single classic of SF is not enough to qualify
one as a Grand Master. 2) What, then, should the qualifications for Grand
Master be, and should we ignore anyone who doesn't meet them? It seems evident
that one can qualify without writing a classic of the field, even a single
short story classic. 3) What is power or influence worth in calculating Grand
Mastery? And what kinds of influence count? What is years of hard work worth?
4) How much good work is enough---and what percentage of a writer's total
output should it be? 5) Do we have hundreds of Grand Masters in SF? One
hundred? Fewer?

Short Horror Fiction: Dead Or Alive (Or Both)? Hard to believe, but until ten
or fifteen years ago the dominant form for horror fiction was not the novel but
the short story. What happened? What's happening now (and who should you be
reading and where do they publish)?

Speaking the Unspeakable: Neologisms in SF/F. What do you call those things
that don't (yet) exist? And what happens when you do (did we talk about
cyberspace before naming it that)?

The End? Where's the perfect place to stop? How much closure is enough? Doesn't
this differ from reader to reader?

The Failures of Ambition. There is a long tradition, in SF, of novels which
attempt to pack together a great many different ideas (e.g., desert ecology,
messianic cults, psi powers, economic monopolies, coming of age, etc.). There
is also, however, a long tradition of novels which fail to do so successfully.
A look at the hows and whys (and why nots).

See Me, Feel Me, Touch Me, Read Me. In which Authors and their designated
Readers combine to explore the subtleties of fiction. In each "round," one of
them has selected a favorite passage from the Author's writing for the Reader
to read aloud (and the Author to react to). How has the Reader captured the
Author's intent? What did they miss, what did they change beyond recognition,
what subtleties did they find that the Author was unaware of?

Surprise, Surprise, Surprise: The Conceptual Breakthrough Novel. Most of us
know and love this classic SF story structure: the world is not as it seems,
it's a mystery to be solved, it turns out that / the universe is a
starship---and the starship is . . . where? / the Second Foundation is
here---no, actually it's here / you're dead---no, we're dead---actually,
everybody's dead / etc. Reality as onion; each time we peel a layer our
perception of everything changes. These books can be difficult to talk about,
of course, since doing so invariably gives them away---some of them are so
subtle (like the novel that inspired this panel, Damien Broderick's The
Dreaming Dragons) they're difficult to even recommend without spoiling.

Nevertheless, we'll try. Why does this story structure have such a basic
appeal? Is it just a metaphor for scientific paradigm shifts, or does it echo
something deeper within us? What makes one trick ending a work of art and
another just a trick? What are the fair and unfair ways of withholding
information from the reader? How is it different when the reader follows the
protagonist on their quest to solve the world, as opposed to slowly figuring
out a world the characters already know? What are the classic works of this
sort, and what are the great neglected ones?

Events

Meet the Pros(e) Party Each pro writer has selected a short, favorite quotation
from her own writing. Each is armed with a strip of 2-line mailing labels. The
quotation is on the labels; an attendee may obtain a label from each pro he
meets.

What does she do with these quotes? An atheist, agnostic, or lazy person can
trust strictly to chance, and paste them into the inside back cover of his
Souvenir Book in the order in which they're obtained. Result: one of at least
Nine Billion Random Prose Poems. Those who believe in the reversal of entropy
can stick them temporarily on the wax paper we'll provide and then assemble
them to make a Statement. Those who believe in lack of respect to living
authors (at least) can take scissors to all the quotes, combining one writer's
subject with another's predicate.

The possibilities, while not strictly endless, do exceed the number of
molecules in the universe.

The Best (or Worst) of Kirk Poland: We've done 9 of these by now (I think) and
we're starting to run out of truly awful works of SF prose. So we're going to
take a few of the more memorable pieces from our first few competitions, and
let a couple of new challengers take on our reigning champion, Geary Gravel.

A brief description for those of you who've managed to miss all 9 previous
competitions: We find a piece of SF prose that's so bad it's funny, and send
the first half of it to our competitors. Each of them writes an ending (without
knowing what the real ending is). We then take all of the endings and mix them
up. At the competition, the beginning and then all of the endings are read
aloud, and the audience gets to vote (by a show of hands) for the ending they
believe is genuine. Competitors get a point for each audience member they fool;
the audience as a whole gets points for being correct. Everyone gets to laugh
so hard they can't breathe.
