                           Other Important Resources

                       "For Writers Who Want To Be Read"

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Contents

   * Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America
   * The Scavenger's Newsletter
   * The Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers' Workshop
   * The Gila Queen's Guide to Markets
   * Locus
   * Tangent
   * Century
   * Heliocentric Network Newsletter

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America, Inc.

SFWA, for short, and don't let anybody con you into sticking that extra F into
the acronym. The oldest, largest, and most respected organization of genre
professionals in the world. Awards the Nebulas every year, does random
publisher audits, grievance matters, educates new writers in the realities of
the business, and throws the best convention suite parties anywhere.

The SFWA Bulletin. SFWA's official organ, but most definitely available to
non-members. Business-oriented material, such as what to watch for in the
current round of contract rights grabbiness. Market information and response
times. Back issues are available; current issue contains articles by Frederik
Pohl, the late Roger Zelazny, Jennifer Roberson, Joe Haldeman, and the last in
Ray Feist's series of contract articles. Pays 3c/word for articles, but
material must appeal to professional audience.

Quarterly, full-sized. Three of four issues are 32 pages; remaining Nebula
Special is 64 pages and has gorgeous full color cover. All delivery via bulk
rate. $3.95/sample issue, $15/year, $27/2 years, $36/3 years. No extra charge
for Canadian service but must be paid in US funds; overseas subscriptions
please add $3.50/year.

Editor: Mark J. McGarry. 404 Oceanside St., Islip Terrace, NY 11752-1203.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Scavenger's Newsletter

"The monthly market letter for SF/Fantasy/Horror/Mystery writers and artists
with an interest in the small press." Issue #138 has Marge Simon's column for
artists, market listings, Canadian update, UK update, "Slim Pickings" (short
market bits), the Flea Market (things for sale), the Dip List (places to be
reviewed, listed, etc), Steven Sawicki's "Skeptic Tank" review column, and a
lively lettercol. About the best possible resource for the small-press writer.
No advertising, but occasionally you'll open it up and a wad of flyers will
fall out in your lap; personally, we like this approach a lot, since you can
simply shake the thing over a garbage can if you don't want to look at any
advertising.

Monthly 7-by-8 1/2" newsletter; this one's 26 pages. $7.75/six months bulk
rate, $9.75/year first class. $15.50/year bulk rate, $19.50/year first class.

Please make checks payable to editor Janet Fox. 519 Ellinwood, Osage City, KS
66523-1329. Phone: (913) 528-3538.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers' Workshop

Monthly newsletter for over-600-member critique-by-mail group. Exists "to
provide participants with a communication link, a way to exchange ideas,
information, and news pertaining to the writing of science fiction, fantasy,
and horror." Fourteen years old at this writing; #166 contains articles,
opinion, deadline calendars, sales reports, group/conference/workshop reports,
letters, "arcane archives" and "jargon jungle" features.

Monthly stapled newsletter; 10 pages plus occasional roster updates. $10/year;
enclose an extra one-time fee of $5 to participate in all workshop activities.
Probably about the most bang you're ever going to get for your
learning-to-write buck.

Editor: Kathleen Woodbury. SF&FW, 1193 S 1900 E, Salt Lake City, UT 84108.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Gila Queen's Guide to Markets

The biggest and best genre market guide in the Known Universe, from which we
and everybody else crib shamelessly. Not just sf, fantasy, and horror, although
the yearly sf/f/h special (#76) got so big it had to be split into two parts.
Rotating specials include romance, religious, sports, regional, women's,
erotica, and much more. And not just our bare-bones listing but full
guidelines, straight from the editors themselves. Plus conferences, contests,
regular markets, scholarships, workshops, classified advertising, and much
more.

Full-sized monthly, 16 to 32 pages. $30/12 issues, $34US to Canada, $48US
overseas.

Please make checks payable to Editor Kathryn Ptacek. The Gila Queen's Guide to
Markets, PO Box 97, Newton, NJ 07860-0097.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Locus

"The Newspaper of the Science Fiction Field" pretty much says it all. Winner of
enough Hugos to line a fair-sized tiger trap. Currently on issue #415; that's
over 28 years worth. Crammed to the gunwales with reviews, interviews, polls,
awards, convention reports, and publishing news. Pays quite a bit more
attention to novels than short fiction, so might be more useful for a beginning
novelist. Locus also runs a fair amount of useful market information, which we
(ahem) steal.

Full-sized monthly; 74 pages. $40/12 issues to the US; Canadian, second class,
overseas, and multi-year rates available upon request.

Editor: Charles N. Brown. Locus Publications, PO Box 13305, Oakland, CA 94661.
Telephone: (501) 339-9198. E-mail: locus@genie.geis.com.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tangent

"The Only Science Fiction & Fantasy Short Fiction Review Magazine." Reviews all
the prozines, all the major anthologies, and as many of the smaller markets as
they can fit. Also includes author profiles, columns, not-to-be-missed
editorials, and letters. Absolutely indispensable for the short fiction author;
if you've had anything in print in a prozine, semiprozine, or decent anthology
in the last two years, chances are excellent that you've already been reviewed.

Full-sized quarterly; 70 pages. $4.95/sample copy; $20/four issues.

Please make all checks payable to Editor David A. Truesdale. Tangent, 5779
Norfleet, Raytown, MO 64133. Telephone:(816) 356-0071.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Century

Okay, so we're cheating with this one. Century's a fiction magazine, not a
source of market information. Why should you subscribe to Century? Well, it's
gorgeous, for one thing: clean white paper stock, perfect-bound, heavy cover
stock, and feels closer to a small-press anthology than a periodical. And the
stories are topnotch; in its first three issues, Century has published more and
better genre-bridging and expanding material than any other magazine within
recent memory. If we had to pick one magazine that best reflects our vision of
the state of the art, Century would be it. Nothing else--with the possible
exception of F&SF--seems to be reaching across the abyss between genre and
"legitimate" fiction.

(Hint: if you're having trouble finding Century, look among the literary
periodicals like Story and Glimmer Train; the good folks at Barnes & Noble tend
not to stick it into the SF section next to Fangoria, for some unfathomable
reason!)

Bimonthly digest; 142 pages. $5.95/sample copy, $15/three issues, $27/six
issues, $49/twelve issues. All prices in US dollars; Canadians and overseas
subscriptions please add $1US/issue.

Editor: Robert K.J. Killheffer.
Publisher: Meg Hamel. Century, PO Box 9270, Madison, WI 53715-0270. Telephone:
(608)251-2225.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Heliocentric Network Newsletter

Lisa Jean Bothell, editor of the Heliocentric Net Horror Anthology and the
Heliocentric NETWORK Newsletter has designed a FREE, abbreviated version of the
NETWORK for Online readers (max 20k-25k text only; bimonthly, with interim
FLASHNETS sent from her email address: LBOTHELL@WOLFENET.com. Available now.
This freebie offers high profile segments, such as current announcements,
upcoming events, writers' bios, brief interviews, staff reviews, and
independent-press market listings & available back copies - this way more
people with online access can see what YOU are doing. The NETWORK is a tool &
be-seen place for all interested genre writers, editors, & publishers. We
encourage you to update us with your upcoming successes, awards, publications,
announcements, etc.
NOTE: The NETWORK also looks for industry-related tips, announcements, info,
and events to announce. Please keep the NETWORK on your contact list for your
media updates and press releases.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          Where Would You Like To Go?

           Go to the FAQ Page - - - - See Other Important Resources

          Check out our Cool Links List - - - - Visit the Rumor Mill

       Return to Speculations Home Page - - - Read the Market Maven Tips

                         Request a free Interim Issue!

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Send Mail to Kent Brewster Publisher of Speculations

Send Mail to Sasha Miller Editor of Speculations

This page and all attachments are © 1995, by Speculations Magazine

Last updated 5/24/96 by Kenny A. Chaffin
Comments to: Kenny
