                                  SPECULATIONS

                       "For Writers Who Want To Be Read"

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Frequently Asked Questions about Speculations:

  1. What's inside a typical issue?
  2. I'm a professional writer. How do I submit material for publication?
  3. How do I subscribe? How much does it cost?
  4. Yow! That's too expensive! I'm a starving student; can't I have a free
     copy?
  5. Why don't you put Speculations online?
  6. This is a butt-ugly Web page! Why aren't there any graphics?

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What's inside a typical issue?

For starters, we've got Randy Dannenfelser's market list, the best in the
industry, containing over a hundred prozines, semiprozines, anthologies, and
book publishers, with response times. Then there's The Market Maven, Cynthia
Ward's collection of news, hints, tips, tricks, rumors, openings, closings,
dead markets, and other important information. If you send out a lot of
manuscripts, Cyn's Save Your Postage Department alone might pay for your
subscription.

And then there's the really good stuff, starting with Ask Bwana, Mike Resnick's
invaluable column, answering all those questions your creative writing teacher
couldn't handle. Why are simultaneous submissions such a bad idea? Should you
ever pay a reading fee? When should you get an agent? Who knows? Bwana does!

Rotating and recurring columns. Bruce Holland Rogers on Staying Alive, a must
for every writer who's ever faced a long dark night of the soul. Lillian
Csernica's Fright Factory, for horror writers who want their readers to face a
long dark night of the soul. And, for you frustrated poets, we've got Lawrence
Schimel's Inverse Thoughts/Thoughts In Verse, with occasional examples by Joe
Haldeman. (We're currently searching for both hard science fiction and fantasy
columnists; if you think you'd be a good candidate, please see question #2,
below.)

Featured teachers. We try to run at least one teaching article with each issue;
in the past we've had Roger MacBride Allen's The Standard Deviations of
Writing, Joe Haldeman's Grammar: High Crimes and Misdemeanors, Bridget
McKenna's Basic Story Structure and How To Nip A Writing Career In The Bud, and
David (not Robert!) Niall Wilson's The Smooth Level & Beyond.

Synopses and cover letters that sold novels. John Stith and Ann Marston Gyoba
both allowed us to print the synopses and letters that hired their agents and
sold their first novels, Scapescope and Kingmaker's Sword. If you've ever
wondered exactly what the novel publishers mean by "query first w/cover ltr,
synopsis, 1st three chaps", you're in luck.

Interviews with industry muscle. Ellen Datlow, John Ordover, Kristine Kathryn
Rusch, and Dean Wesley Smith have all offered important tips to our
subscribers. Mr. Ordover's article in #3, So You Want To Write A Star Trek
Book, may be of particular interest to Web-borne readers.

Critiqued fiction. We generally run one short story per issue, written by a
paid subscriber and critiqued by three genre-compentent professionals. This can
be an invaluable feature, especially if you're laboring alone in the wilderness
and have never gotten any feedback except "I like it!" from your spouse and a
form reject from your editor.

Other stuff: The Ego Shelf, wherein we trumpet the achievements of our readers.
Agent, editor, and publisher profiles. Reviews and previews. Q&A with the
experts. Resource listings. And whatever else we can get our hands on, all
calculated to help you write and sell more.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Back to the Questions
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I'm a professional writer. How do I submit material for publication?

Great! We're always looking for articles. Please e-mail the editor, Sasha
Miller, at76702.2032@compuserve.com . She'd like to see a brief query first,
detailing who you are and what you've got for us. We pay three to ten cents a
word for articles up to 2000 words. Reprints will be cheerfully considered at a
lower rate of pay.

If you've got correspondence that absolutely must be sent via snail mail,
here's our editorial address:

Speculations
PO Box 25369
Colorado Springs, CO 80936-5369

This address is for editorial matters only. Subscriptions, changes of address,
and other business related correspondence should go to the Sunnyvale address
listed below.

Important note:

Speculations is not a fiction market or review magazine! Please don't send any
fiction, poetry, illustrations, or reviews.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Back to the Questions
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

How do I subscribe? How much does it cost?

For a six-issue subscription, please send a check for $25 US dollars to:

Speculations
1111 West El Camino Real
Suite #109-400
Sunnyvale, CA 94087-1057

For Canadian delivery, please send US$30; for overseas delivery, US$40. If
you'd like a sample or back issue, it's $4 to the USA, US$5 to Canada, and US$6
overseas for Air Mail delivery. Yes, we're belaboring the point: all
subscriptions should be paid in United States currency.

This address is for business matters only; all editorial correspondence should
go to the Colorado Springs address listed above.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Back to the Questions
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Yow! That's too expensive! I'm a starving student; can't I have a free copy?

In a word, No.

We will, however, send a 16-page Interim Issue to anyone who cares to upload
his or her address. Interim Issues are what we ship in between the real thing,
since we don't believe any interval longer than a month between issues can
possibly keep everyone current on market changes. Interim Issues contain
Randy's market list and Cyn's Market Maven column; they are free to all paid
subscribers and interested parties.

Get a Free Copy of our latest Interim Issue.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Back to the Questions
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Why don't you put Speculations online?

Well, we can't afford to buy electronic rights from our contributors, for one
thing. "Electronic rights" is a term you're going to hear more and more as time
goes on; currently, the Dell magazines--Asimov's and Analog--grab them for
nothing in their standard short story contract, and no, that clause is not
negotiable unless you're a Big Name. When somebody purchases the electronic
rights to your story, he's basically bought all rights, forever. As soon as a
piece goes online in a form that can be easily copied, copyright becomes
generally unenforceable. Once you've posted something online, you can't be sure
of getting paid a penny for it. Guard your electronic rights well, because
that's where the future is heading.

Meanwhile, back in the real world, money is what keeps Speculations and every
other magazine afloat. Our contributors are pros; they'd insist on top dollar
for electronic rights to their material. We don't have that much money,
therefore we can't afford to go online.

Remember, you get what you pay for in life; yes, if we paid nothing but copies,
we'd probably be able to go straight to the Web and skip all the hassle of
paper publication. But how good could all that free advice possibly be?
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Back to the Questions
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a butt-ugly Web page! Why aren't there any graphics?

For the same reason there aren't any illustrations in Speculations: they're not
needed. We're writers, after all. Are we interested in staring at pretty
pictures? No. We don't run advertisements, illos, or other fill; heck, we even
print the table of contents on the front cover, to save money and gain more
space. If you're viewing this text in Times New Roman, you're seeing exactly
what you'll get in the magazine. On our Web page, graphics would be a waste of
time.

Speaking of which, you've already blown enough writing time screwing around on
the Web tonight. Capture this HTML document with your browser if you haven't
read the whole thing already, log off, and get back to work!

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Back to the Questions
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          Where Would You Like To Go?

           Go to the FAQ Page - - - - See Other Important Resources

          Check out our Cool Links List - - - - Visit the Rumor Mill

       Return to Speculations Home Page - - - Read the Market Maven Tips

                         Request a free Interim Issue!

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Send Mail to Kent Brewster Publisher of Speculations

Send Mail to Sasha Miller Editor of Speculations

This page and all attachments are © 1995, by Speculations Magazine

Last updated 5/25/96 by Kenny A. Chaffin
Comments to: Kenny
