             [[Table of contents]][[Sun's homepage]][[Next story]]

                                    [[News]]

                               Sun goes Hollywood

                     117 SPARCstations render "Toy Story,"
                the first feature-length computer-animated film

By Jeff Ubois

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Advertisement

                          [[RDI - 100% Sun]] [Image]
         [[HAL Computer Systems introduces 64-bit SPARC workstation]]
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------


This fall, the most ambitious collaboration between Hollywood and Silicon
Valley to date will hit the screens in the world's first feature-length
computer-animated film, "Toy Story."

Marketed and financed by Disney, "Toy Story" (see the sidebar for a plot
synopsis) was written, produced, and directed by Pixar Animation Studios in
Point Richmond, Calif., formerly a unit of LucasFilm, and now 75 percent owned
by Apple co-founder Steve Jobs, who is also the film's executive producer.

Pixar is best known by many in the graphics community for its RenderMan
ToolKit, used to create the dinosaurs in "Jurassic Park" and the liquid metal
cyborg in "Terminator 2," and its Typestry software package (see Pixar's
RenderMan and Typestry sidebar). But the company has also won numerous Academy
Awards and Clio Awards for its short films and commercials.

With "Toy Story," the company began an odyssey into territory owned by
Hollywood. "There are two ways to look at the film: one is that it is the
culmination of 20 years of research that have brought us to this point," said
Pixar founder and chief technical officer Ed Catmull. "The other is that this
is a whole new way of making feature animated films, and with this technology
we are at the start of a long period of improved productivity and quality."

"Toy Story" is also something of a coup for Sun Microsystems. The movie's final
image rendering was accomplished on a "farm" of 87 dual-processor and 30
quad-processor 100-MHz SPARCstation 20s -- representing more computing power
than 300 Cray 1's. "There is more computer power applied to this film than [to]
any film in history," Catmull said.

Even with that, rendering the film's 110,000 frames required the equivalent of
46 days of continuous processing; put another way, rendering each frame took
one to three hours of SPARC processor time. "We could use 1,000 times more
power, and we know exactly how we'd use it -- we're limited by the budget, not
our appetite," Catmull said. "It's not like someone who is doing a spreadsheet
and wants two or three times more power for faster turnaround but isn't going
to do anything fundamentally different."

Why Sun?
Silicon Graphics has the dominant mind share among animators, film, and video
producers, and has some important graphics software tools not yet ported to
other platforms. For "Toy Story," SGIs were used to handle modeling, animation,
shading, and lighting. But SPARCstation 20s offered a clear price/performance
win.

Using data from a series of typical pictures, Pixar developed its own
benchmark, called a rendermark, to measure the rendering performance of
different hardware running Pixar's RenderMan software. "We evaluated the
different platforms on the list price per rendermark, and Sun was less
expensive than anybody else by almost a factor of two," Catmull said.

"Sun was very smart in its pricing of multiprocessor technology -- most
companies make you pay a premium for it, so there's no saving from sharing
power supplies and other common elements," Catmull said. "Sun's four-processor
versions are much cheaper per processor."

The SPARCstations also had a size advantage. "The SPARCstation 20s with four
processors are lot cheaper and in a small package, so you've got more
processing per cubic foot, which is an odd way to measure it, but it turns out
to be important," Catmull said.

In a sense, Pixar has come full circle. Back in the LucasFilm days, what is now
Pixar wrote the first operating system Sun used. "The very first Suns that were
delivered ran a version of Unix that we wrote for them, and for the first year
of Sun's existence, this group was their largest customer," Catmull recalls.

Down on the CPU farm
The farm itself is essentially a wall with 117 SPARCstations configured as
headless servers, each with 192 to 384 megabytes of RAM (each processor has an
average of 96 megabytes of RAM) and three to five gigabytes of local disk
storage. The local disks hold a copy of Solaris, some proprietary job control
software, and Pixar's RenderMan. "There has to be a huge swap space, and space
to download models," said David Ching, Pixar's manager of computer operations.

Jobs are fed to each SPARCstation from a SPARCserver 1000e, which contains the
basic information -- models, textures, shaders -- needed to complete the
rendering of the frame. Pixar's propriety job control software feeds the frames
one at a time to each workstation, and ensures an even distribution of work.

The SPARCstations are connected to the server though Grand Junction hubs, which
connect to 24 of the SPARCstations via 10BaseT, and to the SPARCserver 1000e
via a 100 megabyte 100BaseT link. The SPARCserver 1000e is connected to the
rest of the company's network, comprised mostly of SGIs, via 10BaseT, and via
FDDI to SGI Challenges and Indigo 2s that act as master servers. The master
servers store models of different objects, these are retrieved as needed by the
SPARCserver 1000e.

"Essentially the SPARCstations, when they need to refer to a model, get it from
the 1000e, which gets the model from the master servers," Ching said. Pixar
calls its collection of modelling data its "digital back lot."

Shifting around the terabytes of data generated during the course of production
is enough to stress any network. To improve performance, Pixar initially
considered placing each SPARCstation on its own Ethernet segment, and other
more exotic high speed technologies, but economic considerations ruled those
choices out.

Ching said the company is now looking to go to 100BaseT connections throughout.
"HIPPI and FibreChannel are too expensive -- we really didn't want to look at
having to pay for more than 100 high-speed interfaces," Ching said. "Of course,
if we had had gobs of money, we would have done fiber or 100BaseT, but back in
January, that wasn't economical."

Pixar has two large disk farms, an SGI Challenge with 144 gigabytes, and a Sun
array of 108 gigabytes. Both together aren't enough to hold an entire movie, so
images that have been "finalled" (received final approval from the director)
are recorded onto film and backed up to an 8mm Exabyte tape drive.

But because the rendered data is essentially generated on the Suns, working
data is not backed up. "We only back up important data that can't be replaced;
the rest can always be re-rendered," Ching said. "We had one power outage that
cost us some data, but the truth is the data was replaced within a day."

For the future, Pixar is planning a number of improvements. "We're looking at
automated cartridge back-up systems that can handle 100 gigs of data very
quickly," Ching said. "We'd also like to know more about ATM, we'd like to have
switching hubs and maybe a video server."

ATM and the switching hubs will be used to improve network performance, while
the video server will speed movie production more directly by letting animators
do their work more interactively and efficiently. Rather than having to wait
and view their work in a special light room, the video server will allow them
to view clips right at their desks.

Plot line and subject matter aside, "Toy Story" marks a departure into a brand
new world of movie making. With the computer industry eager for new business,
the studios desire to cut costs (and those annoying percentages out of the
gross now going to top actors), and with Steve Jobs' arrival on the Hollywood
scene, graphics geeks can rest assured that world domination is only a matter
of time.

What did you think of this article?
-Excellent! -Okay -Poor [-----] -Too long -Just right -Too short

                               [[Feedback Form]]
             [[Table of contents]][[Sun's homepage]][[Next story]]

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------


[[Also this month...]]

Get free updates to SunWorld Online.
Ten things you need to know about capacity planning.
Windows 95 networking secrets.
Security column: `Is there a fox in your hen-house?'

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------


Resources related to this story

     Pixar's home page http://www.pixar.com/
     Disney's "Toy Story" home page http://www.toystory.com/

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------


                          [[Sidebar]][[Back to story]]

                             The "Toy Story" story

Positioned as Disney's Christmas mega-movie, "Toy Story" is a comedy/adventure
in which toys take on a life of their own when no one is watching.

"Toy Story" features the voices of Tom Hanks as Woody, a pull-string talking
cowboy doll, and Tim Allen as Buzz Lightyear, a superhero space action figure.
The two learn to put aside their rivalry and work together when they become
separated from their owner, a boy named Andy.

These and other characters will be reincarnated in an interactive CD being
produced by Pixar, in numerous licensing deals for toys, and a joint marketing
campaign with Burger King arranged by Disney. Other well known toys, from Mr.
Potato Head (with the voice of Don Rickles) to Slinky Dog (with the voice of
Jim Varney), also make appearances.

Four years in the making, "Toy Story" is directed by John Lasseter, who also
directed Pixar's "Tin Toy," a seminal computer animation short made in 1988
about living toys. "Tin Toy" was the first computer animated film to win an
Academy Award, and "Toy Story" is very much a descendent of that film, many
doublings of computer power later.

                          [[Sidebar]][[Back to story]]

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------


    ------------------------------------------------------------------------


                          [[Sidebar]][[Back to story]]

                         Pixar's RenderMan and Typestry

In addition to movies, Pixar also sells two software packages, RenderMan and
Typestry.

RenderMan runs on Sun, Silicon Graphics, Macintosh, and other computers, and
produces photo-realistic 3-D images in TIFF, PICT, EPS or TGA formats from
mathematical models for shapes, shading, texture, and lighting. Like a digital
camera that controls focus, exposure, viewing angle, level of detail, RenderMan
computes the final image.

Partly because it has been on the market since the late 1980s, and partly
because it runs on so many platforms, a raft of third-party
RenderMan-compatible programs are available. In fact, for any real production,
third-party products are necessary, because RenderMan doesn't do modeling or
animation.

Among RenderMan's credits are the dinosaurs in Jurassic Park, the cyborg in
Terminator 2, the water creatures in The Abyss, and images in Tin Toy, Free
Willy, Cliffhanger, and Casper.

Pixar's Typestry lets users create three-dimensional type, and manipulate it in
a variety of ways, wrapping text around a sphere or tube, or onto a rubber
sheet. It also supports animation, changes the appearance of type surfaces, and
even handles particle emissions from type surfaces.

                          [[Sidebar]][[Back to story]]

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------


                   [[(c) Copyright 1995 Web Publishing Inc.]]

If you have problems with this magazine, contact webmaster@sunworld.com
URL: http://www.sun.com/sunworldonline/swol-11-1995/swol-11-pixar.html
Last updated: 1 November 1995
