.ad l
.nh
.TH soundex 1 "23 March 2011" "My Utilities"
.SH NAME
soundex - translate surnames into Soundex codes

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "soundex"
[ [ \fIsurname_string\fP ] | [[\fI-f\fP \fIfile\fP] | [\fI-h\fP] | [\fI-v\fP]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Soundex is a system for phonetically indexing federal census data.  It was
first applied to the 1880 federal census.  It codes surnames (last names)
based on the way the name sounds rather than how it is spelled.  This program
simplifies the coding of surnames into their Soundex codes.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To translate a single surname, use
.PP
.B
     soundex mysurname
.PP
To translate a list of surnames from a file, use
.PP
.B
     soundex -f myfile

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B "-f file"
read surname list from file.
.TP 5
.B "-h"
display command line help.
.TP 5
.B "-v"
display version.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1996-2011 Whirling Dervish Software, Incorporated
.PP
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation, and that the name of Whirling Dervish Software, 
Incorporated not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
distribution of the software without specific, written prior
permission.  Whirling Dervish Software, Incorporated makes no representations
about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
"as is" without express or implied warranty.
.PP
Whirling Dervish Software, Incorporated disclaims all warranties with regard
to this software, including all implied warranties of merchantability
and fitness, in no event shall Whirling Dervish Software, Incorporated be
liable for any special, indirect or consequential damages or any
damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether
in an action of contract, negligence or other tortuous action, arising
out of or in connection with the use or performance of this software.
.SH AUTHORS
Brian Lingard, Whirling Dervish Software, Incorporated
