[Digital Equipment  Corporation]
[Career InfoCenter Headline]
 [HR]

Engineering opportunities

[Career Opportunities  Graphic]

To locate jobs you may either scroll through all of the opportunities on this
page or jump right to Engineering positions available in the following
divisions:

   * Systems Business Unit
        o Server Business Segment
        o Workstations Business Segment
        o Engineering Prototype Manufacturing
        o UNIX Systems Group

   * Components Division
        o Embedded and Real Time Product Group
        o Storage Business Unit

   * Digital Semiconductor

   * Internet Software Business Unit

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Systems Business Unit -
Engineering opportunities

Server Business Segment

ASIC Engineers - Multiple Positions
Server Business Segment (Maynard, Massachusetts)

Data/Control path logic for: SPM design, PCI interface (32/64 bit, 33/66Mhz),
I/O Bridge, memory, switching interconnects, optical interconnects. 6 plus
years' experience in complex ASIC design. Experience needed in architecture,
design and implementation of high performance ASIC using industry standard
hardware development tools and leading-edge silicon.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resume to:
Digital Equipment Corporation, Staffing Department, Dept 008 MSO-DEC, 129
Parker Street, Mail Stop PKO3-2/Q22, Maynard, Massachusetts, 01754, USA. Fax:
508-492-2877. E-mail: jobs-us-servers@digital.com For consideration, resumes
must indicate department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Module Designers - Multiple Positions
Server Business Segment (Maynard, Massachusetts)

Module designers with high performance PWB technology signal integrity
experience. 6 plus years' experience in complex module design.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resume to:
Digital Equipment Corporation, Staffing Department, Dept 008 MSO-DEC, 129
Parker Street, Mail Stop PKO3-2/Q22, Maynard, Massachusetts, 01754, USA. Fax:
508-493-2877. E-mail: jobs-us-servers@digital.com For consideration, resumes
must indicate department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Verification Engineers - Multiple Positions
Server Business Segment (Maynard, Massachusetts)

Verification Engineers with transactor environments, test directed environments
and system level environments. 2 plus years' experience in design verification.
Verilog HDL experience required and firm knowledge of Viewlogic, Chronologic,
Motive and Synopsis is a plus.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resume to:
Digital Equipment Corporation, Staffing Department, Dept 008 MSO-DEC, 129
Parker Street, Mail Stop PKO3-2/Q22, Maynard, Massachusetts, 01754, USA. Fax:
508-493-2877. E-mail: jobs-us-servers@digital.com For consideration, resumes
must indicate department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Power/Interconnect Engineers
Server Business Segment (Maynard, Massachusetts)

Will be responsible for power system architecture/design, EMC, System control
and interconnect/component development. 7 to 10 years' experience in large
power systems and power supplies. Experience in both bulk and distributed power
architectures. Distributed large power system design a plus. 5 plus years in
materials engineering with particular expertise in high performance PWB, metal
fabrication and plastics. Requires the associated hard tooling experience.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resume to:
Digital Equipment Corporation, Staffing Department, Dept 008 MSO-DEC, 129
Parker Street, Mail Stop PKO3-2/Q22, Maynard, Massachusetts, 01754, USA. Fax:
508-493-2877. E-mail: jobs-us-servers@digital.com For consideration, resumes
must indicate department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Product Engineer
Server Business Segment (Maynard, Massachusetts)

Provide on-going design support engineering. Responsible for investigating
design related problems, modifying the design and qualifying proposed changes.
3 to 5 years of related product engineering experience required.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resume to:
Digital Equipment Corporation, Staffing Department, Dept 008 MSO-DEC, 129
Parker Street, Mail Stop PKO3-2/Q22, Maynard, Massachusetts, 01754, USA. Fax:
508-493-2877. E-mail: jobs-us-servers@digital.com For consideration, resumes
must indicate department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

System Test Engineer
Server Business Segment (Maynard, Massachusetts)

Work as part of a team system testing newly developed option products.
Responsibilities include staging hardware/software test beds for maximum system
interaction. 5 plus years' experience including hardware/software problem
isolation and resolution.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resume to:
Digital Equipment Corporation, Staffing Department, Dept 008 MSO-DEC, 129
Parker Street, mail Stop PKO3-2/Q22, Maynard, Massachusetts, 01754, USA. Fax:
508-493-2877. E-mail: jobs-us-servers@digital.com For consideration, resumes
must indicate department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

   * Return to the Engineering opportunities menu.
   * Visit the Servers Business Segment home page.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Workstations Business Segment

Verification Engineers - Multiple Positions
Workstations Business Segment (Maynard, Massachusetts)

Responsible for the verification of a high-performance, 3D- graphics ASIC. Must
have a detailed understanding of the hardware in order to develop thorough
pseudo-random tests. This position strongly determines the success of the
project. Requires OpenGL,C, C++, hardware-design, graphics architecture and
directed , random testing. Also, UNIX, VERILOG and C-based simulation expertise
is very advantageous. Two to five years' experience in at least one of hardware
design, graphics, verification or software development.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resume to:
Digital Equipment Corporation, Staffing Department, Dept 008 MSO-DEC, 129
Parker Street, Mail Stop PKO3-2/Q22, Maynard, Massachusetts, 01754, USA. Fax:
508-493-2877. E-mail: jobs-us-workstations@digital.com For consideration,
resumes must indicate department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity
employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ASIC Designer - Multiple Positions
Workstations Business Segment (Maynard, Massachusetts)

Involves the hardware design of a portion of a high-performance, 3D-graphics
ASIC. The position utilizes ASIC design skills in logic synthesis, C/C++
programming in a UNIX environment, functional verification, timing verification
and ASIC floor-planning. Knowledge of computer graphics fundamentals, computer
arithmetic or high-performance logic design are desirable. Requires 5 - 7
years' experience.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resume to:
Digital Equipment Corporation, Staffing Department, Dept 008 MSO-DEC, 129
Parker Street, Mail Stop PKO3-2/Q22, Maynard, Massachusetts, 01754, USA. Fax:
508-493-2877. E-mail: jobs-us-workstations@digital.com For consideration,
resumes must indicate department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity
employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

System Application Test Engineer
Workstations Business Segment (Maynard, Massachusetts)

System application testing of new circuit components and analysis of system
design problems involving Alpha workstations and peripherals including EISA/ISA
and PCI options, main memory, cache memory and Alpha CPUs. Will collaborate
with the support team in analysis of problems and definition of practical
design solutions. Knowledge of computer design in some or all of the following
areas is essential: CPU buses, memory and I/O buses, signal integrity, circuit
timing, PCI and EISA/ISA buses. familiarity with firmware and operating systems
(VMS,UNIX, or Windows NT) is required.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resume to:
Digital Equipment Corporation, Staffing Department, Dept 008 MSO-DEC, 129
Parker Street, Mail Stop PKO3-2/Q22, Maynard, Massachusetts, 01754, USA. Fax:
508-493-2877. E-mail: jobs-us-workstations@digital.com For consideration,
resumes must indicate department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity
employer.

   * Return to the Engineering opportunities menu.
   * Visit the Workstations Business Segment home page.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Engineering Prototype Manufacturing

ATE Process Engineer
Engineering Prototype Manufacturing (New Hampshire)

As an ATE Process Engineer in our Engineering Prototype Manufacturing
organization, you will be responsible for the development, implementation, and
installation of Teradyne Z1800 test applications in support of engineering
prototypes and new products.

Development will include working closely with design engineering to insure
design-for-testability principles are incorporated. Implementation will include
interfacing with design engineering and volume manufacturing to insure the
company receives maximum benefit from prototype ATE efforts as it ramps the
product into volume production. Installation includes on-site installation
contract manufacturing. Applicants must have a BS/MS EE and 3-5 years of test
related experience. Minimum of 1 year Z1800 programming and PC experience
required. Knowledge of state-of-the-art test structures, strategies, and
equipment a must. GR228X and C programming experience a plus.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resume to:
Digital Equipment Corporation, Attn: Steve Zabek, Dept. 019 MSO-DEC,
MS02-1/B14, 111 Powdermill Road, Maynard, MA 01754, USA. Fax: (508) 493-7382.
E-mail: jobs-us-informationtechnology@digital.com For consideration, resumes
must indicate department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

   * Return to the Engineering opportunities menu.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

UNIX Systems Group

Senior/Principal Software Engineer
UNIX Systems Group (Nashua, New Hampshire)

This position calls on your experience with multithreaded concurrent
technology, system software development and multiplatform portability to work
on our state-of-the-art, POSIX-compliant multithreading package (DECthreads).
This foundation technology is critical to the success of our software products,
operating systems, compilers, distributed client/server technology and Internet
business. As an active member of a small development team, you will not only
serve as a technical contributor but also have some involvement with project
leadership. Future work may involve integration with Win32 technology,
performance analysis and optimization as well as advanced user development
tools. To qualify, you must have exceptional knowledge of software design and
be highly skilled in C coding. Individuals with both the interest and ability
to handle some project management functions are preferred.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits including relocation
assistance where applicable. Please send your resume to: Digital Equipment
Corporation, Attn: Staffing, Dept. DEC, 110 Spit Brook Road, Mail
Stop:ZK01-3/J35, Nashua, NH 03062, USA. Fax: 603-881-0712. E-mail:
jobs-us-software@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OS Hardware Interfaces
UNIX Systems Group (Nashua, New Hampshire)

Develop OS support for high-performance hardware systems in the following
areas: CPUs, buses, storage (SCSI/CAM), graphics and communications. To
qualify, you must have a degree in Computer Science or equivalent, strong C
programming skills, the ability to communicate effectively, and experience with
UNIX Kernel and Device Drivers development as well as developing UNIX-based
applications or OS subsystems. Master's degree and experience with Shell
Programming TCL/TK and X/Motif a plus.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits including relocation
assistance where applicable. Please send your resume to: Digital Equipment
Corporation, Attn: Staffing, Dept. DEC, 110 Spit Brook Road, Mail
Stop:ZK01-3/J35, Nashua, NH 03062, USA. Fax: 603-881-0712. E-mail:
jobs-us-software@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Development Environment Engineering
UNIX Systems Group (Nashua, New Hampshire)

Design, develop and maintain software for the development environment with
specific focus on shared libraries, linker enhancements and post-link
optimization. To qualify, you must have an MSCS, strong C programming skills,
experience developing UNIX-based applications or OS subsystems, and 7-10 years'
software engineering experience in the areas of code generation and
optimization, linkers, or loaders on a UNIX platform. The ability to
communicate effectively is also essential. Experience with Shell Programming
TCL/TK and X/Motif a plus. Knowledge of C++ is highly desirable.

Serving as an interface between development and maintenance engineering groups,
you will be responsible for managing/improving source management and
maintenance processes and problem management. To qualify, you must have a
Computer Science degree or equivalent, experience developing UNIX-based
applications or OS subsystems, strong C programming skills, 5+ years' software
engineering experience (preferably on a UNIX platform), and familiarity with
development process and source code management tools, processes and issues.
Knowledge of UNIX compilers and tools (especially C++), a Master's degree, and
experience with Shell Programming TCL/TK and X/Motif a plus.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits including relocation
assistance where applicable. Please send your resume to: Digital Equipment
Corporation, Attn: Staffing, Dept. DEC, 110 Spit Brook Road, Mail
Stop:ZK01-3/J35, Nashua, NH 03062, USA. Fax: 603-881-0712. E-mail:
jobs-us-software@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OS Kernel Networking
UNIX Systems Group (Nashua, New Hampshire)

As part of a high-caliber OS Networking team, you will use your drive,
creativity and UNIX networking experience to work on various parts of the
network system. To qualify, you must have a degree in Computer Science or
equivalent, experience developing UNIX-based applications or OS subsystems,
strong C programming skills, and the ability to communicate effectively.
Master's degree and experience with Shell Programming TCL/TK, X/Motif, TCP/IP
internals or ATM a plus.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits including relocation
assistance where applicable. Please send your resume to: Digital Equipment
Corporation, Attn: Staffing, Dept. DEC, 110 Spit Brook Road, Mail
Stop:ZK01-3/J35, Nashua, NH 03062, USA. Fax: 603-881-0712. E-mail:
jobs-us-software@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OS Kernel
UNIX Systems Group (Nashua, New Hampshire)

As a member of the UNIX Kernel Development Group, you will work in the areas of
process management, virtual memory management or join our Micro Kernel Advanced
Development Project. To qualify, you must have a degree in Computer Science or
equivalent, experience developing UNIX-based applications or OS subsystems,
strong C programming skills, and the ability to communicate effectively.
Master's degree and experience with Shell Programming TCL/TK and X/Motif a
plus.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits including relocation
assistance where applicable. Please send your resume to: Digital Equipment
Corporation, Attn: Staffing, Dept. DEC, 110 Spit Brook Road, Mail
Stop:ZK01-3/J35, Nashua, NH 03062, USA. Fax: 603-881-0712. E-mail:
jobs-us-software@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Quality Assurance
UNIX Systems Group (Nashua, New Hampshire)

Our exciting team in the UNIX QA Group is looking forward to the addition of
your experience and talent to projects dealing with X/Motif, OS Kernel, and
distributed systems. To qualify, you must have a degree in Computer Science or
equivalent, experience developing UNIX-based applications or OS subsystems,
strong C programming skills, and the ability to communicate effectively. In
addition, you must have experience in one or more of the following areas: test
development, large complex UNIX systems testing, C development and debugging,
large storage/network clusters, performance tuning and databases. Master's
degree and experience with Shell Programming TCL/TK and X/Motif a plus.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits including relocation
assistance where applicable. Please send your resume to: Digital Equipment
Corporation, Attn: Staffing, Dept. DEC, 110 Spit Brook Road, Mail
Stop:ZK01-3/J35, Nashua, NH 03062, USA. Fax: 603-881-0712. E-mail:
jobs-us-software@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

UNIX File Systems
UNIX Systems Group (Nashua, New Hampshire)

You will be responsible for developing state-of-the-art technology in support
of commercial and technical computing solutions, as well as working on the
Digital UNIX OS and 64-bit Alpha hardware platforms from the desktop to highly
available clustered systems. Positions are available on projects dealing with
disk volume management, logged-based physical file systems, Clusters, and
network and distributed file systems. To qualify, you must have a degree in
Computer Science or equivalent, experience developing UNIX-based applications
or OS subsystems, strong C programming skills, and the ability to communicate
effectively. Master's degree and experience with Shell Programming TCL/TK and
X/Motif a plus.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits including relocation
assistance where applicable. Please send your resume to: Digital Equipment
Corporation, Attn: Staffing, Dept. DEC, 110 Spit Brook Road, Mail
Stop:ZK01-3/J35, Nashua, NH 03062, USA. Fax: 603-881-0712. E-mail:
jobs-us-software@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sustaining Engineering
UNIX Systems Group (Nashua, New Hampshire)

As part of an experienced team of engineers, you will solve high-priority
problems from customers in the rapidly expanding installed base of Digital UNIX
systems. Debugging systems down to code level, analyzing crash dumps, and
recommending code fixes are essential. To qualify, you must have a degree in
Computer Science or equivalent, experience developing UNIX-based applications
or OS subsystems, strong C programming skills, the ability to communicate
effectively, and knowledge of one or more of the following: OS Kernel, File
Systems, I/O networking, X-Servers, Commands and Utilities or Compilers.
Master's degree and experience with Shell Programming TCL/TK and X/Motif a
plus.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits including relocation
assistance where applicable. Please send your resume to: Digital Equipment
Corporation, Attn: Staffing, Dept. DEC, 110 Spit Brook Road, Mail
Stop:ZK01-3/J35, Nashua, NH 03062, USA. Fax: 603-881-0712. E-mail:
jobs-us-software@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Product Management
UNIX Systems Group (Nashua, New Hampshire)

Using your background in network and system management, commercial server
software, or software development, you will apply expertise to strategy
development, planning and business implementation. To qualify, you must have a
degree in Computer Science or equivalent, experience developing UNIX-based
applications or OS subsystems, strong C programming skills, and the ability to
communicate effectively. Master's degree and experience with Shell Programming
TCL/TK and X/Motif a plus.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits including relocation
assistance where applicable. Please send your resume to: Digital Equipment
Corporation, Attn: Staffing, Dept. DEC, 110 Spit Brook Road, Mail
Stop:ZK01-3/J35, Nashua, NH 03062, USA. Fax: 603-881-0712. E-mail:
jobs-us-software@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Principal/Senior Software Engineer
UNIX Systems Group (Nashua, New Hampshire)

Using your experience in a complex system-level application, you will function
as part of our Cell Directory Service (CDS) team. To qualify, you must have a
degree in Computer Science or equivalent, experience developing UNIX-based
applications or OS subsystems, strong C programming skills, and the ability to
communicate effectively. Master's degree and experience with Shell Programming
TCL/TK and X/Motif a plus. Knowledge of RPC programming and threads debugging
would be very helpful. Experience developing UNIX preferred.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits including relocation
assistance where applicable. Please send your resume to: Digital Equipment
Corporation, Attn: Staffing, Dept. DEC, 110 Spit Brook Road, Mail
Stop:ZK01-3/J35, Nashua, NH 03062, USA. Fax: 603-881-0712. E-mail:
jobs-us-software@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Compiler Code Generation and Optimization
UNIX Systems Group (Nashua, New Hampshire)

In this position you will be responsible for software development, support and
maintenance tasks. To qualify, you must have a degree in Computer Science or
equivalent, experience developing UNIX-based applications or OS subsystems,
strong C programming skills, and the ability to communicate effectively.
Knowledge and experience in compiler theory, construction and code generation
or code optimization is also required. Master's degree and experience with
Shell Programming TCL/TK and X/Motif a plus.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits including relocation
assistance where applicable. Please send your resume to: Digital Equipment
Corporation, Attn: Staffing, Dept. DEC, 110 Spit Brook Road, Mail
Stop:ZK01-3/J35, Nashua, NH 03062, USA. Fax: 603-881-0712. E-mail:
jobs-us-software@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

   * Return to the Engineering opportunities menu.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Components Division -
Engineering opportunities

Embedded and Real Time Product Group

Software Senior Engineer
Embedded and Real Time Product Group-Engineering Services (Marlboro,
Massachusetts)

Work in the SW/Firmware Testing group. Responsibilities include leading and
participating in qualification of new product development, developing and
executing test strategies, and resolving issues with the development
organization. The ideal candidate will have the following skills: experience
with test methodologies and automated test tools, experience with Windows,
Windows NT and/or UNIX operating platforms, experience with various network
environments, and proficiency with programming in a language such as C.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send your resume
to: Digital Equipment Corporation, Attn: Employment, Dept. TB1-DEC, 550 King
Street LKG1-1/07, Littleton, MA 01460, USA. Fax: 508-486-5091. E-mail:
jobs-us-components@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Software Engineer
Embedded and Real Time Product Group-Engineering Services (Marlboro,
Massachusetts)

Work in the SW/Firmware Testing group. Responsibilities include leading and
participating in qualification of new product development, developing and
executing test strategies, and resolving issues with the development
organization. Ideal candidate will have the following skills: experience with
test methodologies and automated test tools, exp with windows, Windows NT
and/or UNIX operating platforms, experience with various network environments,
and proficiency with programming in a language such as C. BS/MS Computer
Science. 2+ yrs exp in SW eng. Exp with SW quality/testing helpful.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send your resume
to: Digital Equipment Corporation, Attn: Employment, Dept.TB2-DEC, 550 King
Street LKG1-1/07, Employment, Littleton, MA 01460, USA. Fax: 508-486-5091.
E-mail: jobs-us-components@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Software Engineer
Embedded and Real Time Product Group-Engineering Services (Marlboro,
Massachusetts)

Coordinate multiple field tests of complex video and printer hardware and
software products. Analyze functions needing test write field test plan,
perform licensing and test startup, provide central focus for communications
between test sites ( internal and external) and development teams. 3 years
field test experience, BA or BS with excellent negotiation, communication and
writing skills. Sufficient hardware and software experience to make substantive
contribution at field test sites. Ability to influence sites to use products
under test.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send your resume
to: Digital Equipment Corporation, Attn: Employment, Dept. TB3-DEC, 550 King
Street LKG1-1/07, Littleton, MA 01460, USA. FAX: 508-486-5091. E-mail:
jobs-us-components@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Software Senior Engineer
Embedded and Real Time Product Group-Engineering Services (Marlboro,
Massachusetts)

Work in the Software/Firmware Quality group within the Components & Peripherals
Business Unit. The ideal candidate will have the following skills: PC-Windows &
NT, UNIXSolaris, AIX and/or SCO, Networks-LAN & WAN testing, test
methodologies, configuration management, automated test tools, writing test
plans & test case, testing methods for different environ, testing drivers,
Motif knowledgeable, proficient w/ a high level computer language like C. BS or
MS in Computer Science, Computer Engineering or the equiv. 4+ yrs exp in
software eng, w/explicit testing/quality exp a must.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send your resume
to: Digital Equipment Corporation, Attn: Employment, Dept. TB4-DEC, 550 King
Street LKG1-1/07, Littleton, MA 01460, USA. FAX: 508-486-5091. E-mail:
jobs-us-components@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

   * Return to the Engineering opportunities menu.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Storage Business Unit

Software Engineers
Storage Business Unit (Shrewsbury, Massachusetts; Colorado Springs, Colorado;
Bellevue, Washington)

The Storage Business Unit provides industry-leading, enterprise-wide storage
solutions to global markets with our StorageWorks product family. Products so
flexible, they also run on Sun, HP and IBM platforms, as well as PC servers and
LANs. Plus, we are leaders in cutting-edge storage technology like RAID
(Redundant Array of Independent Disks) and HSM (Hierarchical Storage
Management).

Opportunities are available today for you to put your skills to work in
Digital's Storage Business Unit, which has had continual growth and increasing
market share. Openings exist for individuals to: design and develop software
for media management, backup, HSM and networked storage applications. You could
also qualify and integrate storage devices (disk, tape, and optical) and
subsystems into solutions for customers or, develop state-of-the-art solutions
for Digital and third-party partners. You could also become part of the array
controller team responsible for designing hardware and firmware, or join our
manufacturing group and help integrate product solutions into a manufacturing
environment. Each position requires the ability to determine and evaluate
technical solutions, analyze problems and work with other engineering groups.
To qualify, you should have a B.S. in Computer Science, Electrical Engineering,
Electrical Engineering Technology or equivalent. Experience with UNIX, Windows
NT, VMS, C++, C, Basic and computer storage devices preferred.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits including an outstanding
relocation package. Please send your resume for all locations to: Digital
Equipment Corporation, Attn: Storage Staffing Manager, Dept. DEC, Mail Stop:
SHR3-2/C5, 334 South Street, Shrewsbury, MA 01545, USA. Fax: 508-841-5753.
E-Mail: jobs-us-storage@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

   * Return to the Engineering opportunities menu.
   * Visit the Storage Business Unit home page.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Digital Semiconductor -
Engineering opportunities

VLSI Chip/System Verification Engineers/Architects
Digital Semiconductor (Massachusetts)

You'll enjoy all the benefits of leading a dual life--not only as a
verification and architecture expert, but also as a member of a leading-edge
VLSI development team - working closely with circuit designers and chip
architects to uncover bugs and help lead the project to success. You won't get
stuck doing just hardware, or just software. Instead, you'll combine your
architecture, logic, software (knowledge of C/C++ algorithms and data
structures), and CAD tool skills/experience to devise innovative ways of
creating random transactors and demons that will exercise all the nooks and
crannies of these complicated chips. Whether you write macrocode tests directly
or write tools to generate tests and scripts, you'll be encouraged to look at
the design from differing perspectives and apply simulation, debugging, and
functional coverage analysis techniques to dig deeper for unstimulated
cross-products. With an eagerness to learn, you'll tap into our extensive
state-of-the-art verification tool suite and experience base to sharpen your
own effectiveness and grow even more. Often, our verification engineers know
the functional operation better than the designers themselves. As a leader,
technical contributor, or tool crafter, you'll be a vital part of this exciting
design team.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resumes to:
Digital Semiconductor, Attn: Professional Staffing, Dept. DEC, 77 Reed Road,
(HLO2-2/K12), Hudson, MA 01749, USA. Fax: 508-568-6662. E-mail:
jobs-us-semiconductor@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Circuit Designers
Digital Semiconductor (Massachusetts)

As a Custom CMOS VLSI Circuit Designer, you will lay the technical foundation
for the design of future generations of high-performance Alpha microprocessors.
The work covers a broad range of disciplines and involves design optimizations
that span process technology, circuit design and microarchitecture. You will
function as a valued member of an innovative team that will design
state-of-the-art, high-speed, power-efficient circuit structures. In addition,
you will help guide the continuing development of our leading-edge CAD suite,
as well as contribute to all phases of design - from conception through
production release.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resumes to:
Digital Semiconductor, Attn: Staffing Manager, Dept. DEC, 77 Reed Road,
(HLO2-2/K12), Hudson, MA 01749, USA. Fax: 508-568-6662. E-mail:
jobs-us-semiconductor@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Architects
Digital Semiconductor (Massachusetts)

As a Microprocessor Architect, you will help create the next generation
deep-submicron Alpha microprocessor capable of achieving high instructions per
cycle time while operating at Digital's industry-leading clock frequencies.
This will include analysis of critical applications, performance and
behavioral/RTL modeling, microarchitectural performance/area/power tradeoffs
and high-speed system design. In addition, you will work closely with our
circuit, layout and verification engineers to guide the design from initial
concept through implementation to production release.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resumes to:
Digital Semiconductor, Attn: Staffing Manager, Dept. DEC, 77 Reed Road,
(HLO2-2/K12), Hudson, MA 01749, USA. Fax: 508-568-6662. E-mail:
jobs-us-semiconductor@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MOSFET Engineers
Digital Semiconductor (Massachusetts)

You will develop and enhance parasitic models such as capacitances, resistance
and inductance of high-speed VLSI devices and circuits. To qualify, you must
have a MS in Physics or PhDEE, 3 years' experience in device interconnect
modeling and software development.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resumes to:
Digital Semiconductor, Attn: Professional Staffing, Dept. DEC, 77 Reed Road,
(HLO2-2/K12), Hudson, MA 01749, USA. Fax: 508-568-6662. E-mail:
jobs-us-semiconductor@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Microprocessor Architects
Digital Semiconductor (Palo Alto, California)

As a technical leader for StrongArm high-performance, low-power CPU chips, you
will provide technical direction to a team of architects and interface with the
VLSI Implementation group. To qualify, you must have 8-10 years' experience in
custom microprocessor design.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send your resume
to: Digital Semiconductor, Attn: Staffing, Dept. DEC, 181 Lytton Ave., Suite
101, Palo Alto, CA 94301, USA. Fax: 415-853-6537. E-mail:
jobs-us-paloalto@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

VLSI Microprocessor Designers
Digital Semiconductor (Palo Alto, California)

You will perform full customer CMOS design at the logic and circuit level.
Working with microarchitects, you will define optimum chip organization and
timing budgets with responsibility for the complete implementation using
Digital Semiconductor's specially developed high-performance CAD tools.
Positions are available at all levels including VLSI Chip Implementation
Leader.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send your resume
to: Digital Semiconductor, Attn: Staffing, Dept. DEC, 181 Lytton Ave., Suite
101, Palo Alto, CA 94301, USA. Fax: 415-853-6537. E-mail:
jobs-us-paloalto@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

VLSI Microprocessor Verification Engineers
Digital Semiconductor (Palo Alto, California)

You will be responsible for verification test development, testability and
coverage analysis as well as manufacturing test development and on-chip test
hardware. BIST design for high-performance, low-power microprocessors will also
be required. Entry-level to senior-level positions are available.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send your resume
to: Digital Semiconductor, Attn: Staffing, Dept. DEC, 181 Lytton Ave., Suite
101, Palo Alto, CA 94301, USA. Fax: 415-853-6537. E-mail:
jobs-us-paloalto@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Multimedia and Signal Processing Architects
Digital Semiconductor (Palo Alto, California)

You will help define the features required to support high-performance video
encoding/decoding, 3D graphics, soft modems, etc. In addition, you will be
responsible for algorithm development and detailed functionality as well as
performance evaluation. Senior or Principal Engineer level positions are
available.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send your resume
to: Digital Semiconductor, Attn: Staffing, Dept. DEC, 181 Lytton Ave., Suite
101, Palo Alto, CA 94301, USA. Fax: 415-853-6537. E-mail:
jobs-us-paloalto@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

VLSI CAD and Support Engineers
Digital Semiconductor (Palo Alto, California)

You will work with design engineers to define an optimum CAD environment for
low-power microprocessor development. Helping to configure internally developed
CAD tools to meet local needs as well as evaluating commercial tools for
integration in the design environment will also be among your duties.
Senior-level positions are available.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send your resume
to: Digital Semiconductor, Attn: Staffing, Dept. DEC, 181 Lytton Ave., Suite
101, Palo Alto, CA 94301, USA. Fax: 415-853-6537. E-mail:
jobs-us-paloalto@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Test Engineers
Digital Semiconductor (Massachusetts)

Generate test programs/hardware to test and characterize complex VLSI devices
on advanced automated test equipment. Develop test strategies, evaluate device
testability, and write software tools to enhance test program development. Work
with Manufacturing and Design on device debug and verification. Develop and
evaluate new test methodologies and equipment. Will be a project leader/mentor.
Applicants need BSEE/CE (MS preferred) with 8+ years' experience in VLSI test
development. Strong knowledge of CMOS device physics, computer architecture and
logic simulation needed.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resumes to:
Digital Semiconductor, Attn: Professional Staffing, Dept. DEC, 77 Reed Road,
(HLO2-2/K12), Hudson, MA 01749, USA. Fax: 508-568-6662. E-mail:
jobs-us-semiconductor@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Product Engineers
Digital Semiconductor (Massachusetts)

These individuals will be responsible for solving product manufacturing
problems for complex VLSI devices. Includes understanding and solving circuit
design and testing problems, packaging problems, product to process match and
attaining yield enhancement and cost reduction. These positions will provide an
opportunity to become totally familiar with certain device types and also to
understand manufacturing of VLSI devices. Applicants need a BSEE (MS preferred)
with 5+ years' experience in Product- Engineering or a related field (Test,
Process or Circuit).

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resumes to:
Digital Semiconductor, Attn: Professional Staffing, Dept. DEC, 77 Reed Road,
(HLO2-2/K12), Hudson, MA 01749, USA. Fax: 508-568-6662. E-mail:
jobs-us-semiconductor@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CMOS Layout Designers
Digital Semiconductor (Massachusetts)

Excellent opportunities exist for talented IC layout professionals with custom
CMOS layout experience. Responsible for creating, verifying and integrating
large custom CMOS VLSI chips. A minimum of 3-5 years' experience in floor
planning, integrating and leading other layout designers in the development of
large microprocessor designs required.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resumes to:
Digital Semiconductor, Attn: Professional Staffing, Dept. DEC, 77 Reed Road,
(HLO2-2/K12), Hudson, MA 01749, USA. Fax: 508-568-6662. E-mail:
jobs-us-semiconductor@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Process Engineers
Digital Semiconductor (Massachusetts)

Responsible for providing on-line process engineering support for CMOS, 200mm,
class 10 cleanroom environment. Individuals will be responsible for one or more
of the following process areas: Photolithography, Metrology, Films, Diffusion,
Implant, or Defect Reduction. Knowledge of underlying process chemistry/physics
and an understanding of equipment control systems will be used to drive process
capabilities and cost improvements. Requires BS/MS in Chemical Engineering,
Physics, Electrical Engineering or Material Science, with 2+ years of practical
CMOS wafer fab experience.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resumes to:
Digital Semiconductor, Attn: Professional Staffing, Dept. DEC, 77 Reed Road,
(HLO2-2/K12), Hudson, MA 01749, USA. Fax: 508-568-6662. E-mail:
jobs-us-semiconductor@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Photoresist Engineers
Digital Semiconductor (Massachusetts)

Qualified candidates will be responsible for research, identification,
qualification and introduction of new photoresist chemicals and processes in
200mm CMOS manufacturing. Individuals will be responsible for vendor, product
and process qualification, chemical analysis, product/process introduction to
manufacturing, as well as QC/QA SPC reporting. Requires: BS/MS - Chemical
Engineering/Material Sciences with 5+ years of experience in photoresist
engineering.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resumes to:
Digital Semiconductor, Attn: Professional Staffing, Dept. DEC, 77 Reed Road,
(HLO2-2/K12), Hudson, MA 01749, USA. Fax: 508-568-6662. E-mail:
jobs-us-semiconductor@digital.com For consideration, resumes must indicate
department code. We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

   * Return to the Engineering opportunities menu.
   * Visit the Digital Semiconductor home page.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Internet Software Business Unit -
Engineering Opportunities

Software Principal Engineer - Internet Collaboration (2 positions)
Internet Software Business Unit (Massachusetts)

You will work on the development of Alta Vista collaboration products. These
products allow multiple individuals to share information and work on the same
team. Products such as Alta Vista Workgroup Forum will be enhanced as a base
platform and with newly developed applications. Development will occur
primarily on WindowsNT, Windows95 and UNIX. To qualify, you must have a BS
CS/SE/EE (MS preferred), general networking experience and knowledge of C and
C++. UNIX, Internet and WWW server experience is also essential. U.S. work
permit required.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resume to:
Fax: 603-881-0712. E-mail: jobs-us-isbustaffing@digital.com Attn: ISBU
Staffing, Dept. DEC. For consideration, resumes must indicate department code.
We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Software Engineering Consultant - Internet Security
Internet Software Business Unit (Massachusetts)

This challenging position calls on your abilities as a senior-level
Cryptographer and Protocol Developer. In-depth experience in the following will
be required: public/secret key technologies, key distribution systems,
certificates, authorities, digital signatures, key escrow systems, key exchange
mechanisms (i.e. Diffie-Hellman), stream and block ciphers (i.e. RC4 and DES)
and hashing algorithms (i.e. MD5 and SHA). To qualify, you must have a BS
CS/SE/EE (MS/PhD preferred), the ability to architect and implement in a
fast-paced product development environment, and experience developing with C++
in Windows and UNIX. Knowledge in US Crypto export law and in one or more of
the following protocols is also essential: TCP/IP, SSL, SHTTP, PCT, SKIP and
Photuris. U.S. work permit required.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resume to:
Fax: 603-881-0712. E-mail: jobs-us-isbustaffing@digital.com Attn: ISBU
Staffing, Dept. DEC. For consideration, resumes must indicate department code.
We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Senior/Principal Software Engineer - Internet Security (2 positions)
Internet Software Business Unit (Massachusetts)

As a self-motivated QA Engineer, you will work in a start-up environment to
ensure early detection of defects found in the development process, test
development on multiple platforms, automated test execution, test code coverage
analysis and creating reusable tools. Members of the quality team work closely
with engineering teams with quick time-to-market goals. Products are Internet
security related and run on Windows95, WindowsNT and UNIX platforms. To
qualify, you must have a BSCS/MSCS or equivalent; 3-5 years' experience; and
knowledge of WWW technologies, security, networking and white box testing.
Proficiency in C/C++, shell scripts, Tcl/Tk, GUI testing, TCP/IP protocols,
source code control, MFC and firewall/tunnels a plus. U.S. work permit
required.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resume to:
Fax: 603-881-0712. E-mail: jobs-us-isbustaffing@digital.com Attn: ISBU
Staffing, Dept. DEC. For consideration, resumes must indicate department code.
We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Principal Software Engineer - Systems Engineering (4 positions)
Internet Software Business Unit (Massachusetts)

Your experience as a Windows programmer is ideally suited for this challenging
position. To qualify, you must have a BSCS/MSCS; 4+ years' experience in
Windows software development; and object-oriented experience that includes
knowledge of C++, familiarity with the MFC and some OLE/COM experience. In
addition, you must have written applications for Windows/Windows95/ WindowsNT.
Some distributed systems or networking experience as well as an interest in the
Web and its applications is highly desirable. U.S. work permit required.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resume to:
Fax: 603-881-0712. E-mail: jobs-us-isbustaffing@digital.com Attn: ISBU
Staffing, Dept. DEC. For consideration, resumes must indicate department code.
We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Senior Software Engineer - Alta Vista Product Development (3 positions)
Internet Software Business Unit (Massachusetts)

You will function as an active member a team responsible for developing
software for the Village Alta Vista. To qualify, you must have a BSCS/MSCS or
equivalent, software development experience with C in a UNIX or WindowsNT
environment, and strong knowledge of the Internet, WWW and network programming.
U.S. work permit required.

Digital offers competitive salaries and full benefits. Please send resume to:
Fax: 603-881-0712. E-mail: jobs-us-isbustaffing@digital.com Attn: ISBU
Staffing, Dept. DEC. For consideration, resumes must indicate department code.
We are an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.

   * Return to the Engineering opportunities menu.

 [HR]
 [Home]

Updated: Tue April 30, 1996

TM
