Atari 2600

[Atari 2600 four-switch console] The Atari 2600, introduced in 1977 as the
                                 Atari Video Computer System (VCS), was the
most popular pre-crash home system. It first released in a six-switch model
with a large base, a second six-switch model, and later in four-switch
woodgrain, four-switch black-panel, and "2600jr" models, as well as several
sub-models which are variations on these models (see the list in the FAQ).
Atari released the 2800 in Japan, which was released in the U.S. as the Sears
Video Arcade II (see below). Atari also had a prototype wireless 2600 which
never made it to store shelves. All models play the same cartridges and use the
same peripherals.

In 1983, four companies proposed to turn the Atari 2600 into a real home
computer. However, Atari's My First Computer [second picture from Matt Brady],
Entex's Piggyback, Unitronics's Expander, and Spectravideo's Compumate were
deficient in some way (capabilities, keyboard, price, etc) and couldn't stand
up against the existing home computer market.

Through the early 1980s, Atari and third parties introduced (some as vaporware)
all kinds of expansions for the aging 2600. Atari themselves had the Space-Age
Joystick, as well as the above-mentioned keyboard and the Voice Commander voice
recognition system. CVC had the Gameline Master Module which allowed users to
play games downloaded through a modem. Milton-Bradley came up with a couple of
novel controllers as well, including the Flight Commander and the Cosmic
Commander which came with their own cartridges. Amiga, maker of various
creative devices, dreamed up the Joyboard and a tape-based game system as part
of its "Power System" line of products. The user stands on the Joyboard and
rocks in various directions to emulate a joystick. Try playing Activision
Decathlon with that!

Due to the popularity of the Atari 2600, there were quite a few compatibility
modules for other systems. Mattel made a 2600-compatibility module for its
Intellivision II, and Atari made one for its 5200. Cardco announced one for the
Commodore VIC-20 but it was not made publicly available. Coleco had not only
2600-compatibility expansion module for its ColecoVision, but a 2600 clone
called the Gemini which spurred a lawsuit from Atari.

Clones of the Atari 2600 were abundant. Coleco's Gemini system included two
controllers that had both sticks and paddle knobs. It was also sold by Columbia
House as the Columbia Home Arcade, which sold 2600 cartridges under roughly the
same deal as its book or tape/CD clubs now. Sears had a number of its own 2600
clones, produced with the cooperation of Atari, under the Video Arcade label
(they also sold Intellivision clones under the "Super Video Arcade" label). The
first two were six- and four-switch models like the Atari models, but with a
different plate around the switches and a different fake woodgrain pattern.
However, the next model was the Sears Video Arcade II, the only version of the
Atari 2800 sold in the U.S. It's shaped like the 7800 but has four joystick
ports. Sears also sold Atari cartridges under the Tele-games label, three of
which were Sears exclusives.

Unauthorized clones of the 2600 were popular after the crash and some are still
being produced today. The Dynavision is a "plain" clone which plays cartridge
games. It is called "plain" since many unauthorized clones, like the Rambo,
come with built-in games. One clone still being produced is the TV Boy [better
picture from JerryG]. The TV Boy is small and portable. Using the optional
antenna and four AA batteries, all one needs to do is point it at a TV tuned to
channel 13 and play one of the 126 built-in games. It would be the perfect
portable 2600 but it has no cartridge port-- one can only play the built-in
games.

Atari attempted to bring back the Atari 2600 and in 1989 was trying hard to
sell it in a big promotion along with the 7800 and XE Game System. By this
time, Nintendo's NES held most of the market and advanced systems like the Sega
Genesis were appearing on the scene. Despite Atari's "The Fun is Back... Under
$50" campaign, no one wanted the twelve-year-old technology.

Related Information

   * Atari 2600/5200/7800 FAQ
   * List of Atari 2600 Cartridges
   * How to Turn Your Atari Into A Computer by Martin Bass (links to pictures
     below)

Pictures

   * Atari 2600 four-switch console
   * Atari 2600 six-switch model
   * Atari 2600 four-switch woodgrain
   * Atari 2600jr
   * Wireless 2600
   * Atari's My First Computer 2600 add-on
   * Atari MFC again [second picture from Matt Brady]
   * Entex's Piggyback computer add-on
   * Unitronics's Expander computer add-on
   * Spectravideo's Compumate computer add-on
   * Space-Age Joystick
   * Atari's MFC yet again and the Voice Commander
   * CVC's Gameline Master Module
   * MB Flight Commander
   * MB Cosmic Commander
   * Amiga's Joyboard
   * Amiga's Power System
   * Columbia Home Arcade 2600 clone
   * Sears Video Arcade II (Atari 2800)
   * Dynavision 2600 clone
   * TV Boy portable 2600 clone with built-in games
   * TV Boy again [better picture from JerryG]
   * 2600 promotional flier page

[PREV] [UP] [NEXT]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dennis Brown, dgb@owlnet.rice.edu, creator and maintainer. E-Mail me with
corrections and additions. All contents copyright 1996, Dennis Brown. All
trademarks are properties of their respective companies.
