Mattel Intellivision

[Mattel Intellivision console] From the Intellivision FAQ, copyright Larry
                               Anderson...

At the end of 1979, Mattel Electronics (a division of Mattel Toys) released a
video game system known as Intellivision along with 12 video game cartridges.
Poised as a competitor to the then king of the hill Atari 2600, Mattel
Electronics called their new product "Intelligent Television", stemming largely
from their marketing plans to release a compatible computer keyboard for their
video games console. Mattel's marketing was anything *but* intelligent and
almost destroyed the company by 1984. In one sense the system was very
successful, with over 3 million units sold and 125 games released before the
system was discontinued by INTV Corp. in 1990.

The original Master Component was test marketed in Fresno, California in late
1979. The response was excellent, and Mattel went national with their new game
system in late 1980. The first year's production run of 200,000 units was
completely sold out! To help enhance it's marketability, Mattel also marketed
the system in Sears stores as the Super Video Arcade, and at Radio Shack as the
Tandyvision One in the early 1980's.

1980 was a turbulent year for the Intellivision. Mattel announced that an
"inexpensive" keyboard expansion [alternate picture] would be available in 1981
for the master component to be dropped into. This was to turn the system into a
powerful 64K home computer that could do everything from play games to balance
your checkbook. There was a great deal of marketing money and press coverage
devoted to this unit; a third of the box for the GTE/Sylvania Intellivision
describes the features of this proposed expansion. Many people bought an
Intellivision with plans to turn it into a computer when the expansion module
was released. Months, then years passed and the original expansion keyboard was
released only in a few test areas in late 1981. With the price too high and the
initial reaction poor, the product was scrapped in 1982 before being released
nationwide.

1982 saw many changes in both the videogame industry and the Intellivision
product line. A voice-synthesis module called Intellivoice made sound and
speech and integral part of gameplay, through the use of special voice-
enhanced cartridges. The Intellivision II was also released this year, which
one company spokesperson described as "smaller and lighter that the original,
yet with the same powerful 16-bit microprocessor". The new console was more
compact than the first, and its grayish body made it look more like a
sophisticated electronic device than the original design.

1983 brought more promises from the folks at Mattel, the most significant of
which being the Intellivision III. This was shown off at the January 1983 CES
show, and lauded in the videogame mags for many months afterwards. In June of
1983 at the Summer CES show, Mattel announced it was killing the Intellivision
III and including most of its high-profile features into their long-awaited
computer expansion, the Entertainment Computer System.

Probably the most ambitious effort the Intellivision team had undertaken, the
Entertainment Computer System was comprised of a computer keyboard add-on, a
49-key music synthesizer, ram expansion for the keyboard add-on to expand it to
a full 64K RAM and 24K ROM, a data recorder to store programs, a 40-column
thermal printer, and an adapter which would allow you to play Atari 2600 games
on your Intellivision. The RAM expansion modules, data recorder, and thermal
printer never made it past the drawing board, and the music synthesizer had but
one software title to take advantage of its capabilities. While the 2600
adapter greatly expanded the library of available games, much of the steam this
generated had already been stolen by Coleco's own expansion module.

1984 would spell the end of the original Intellivision as the world knew it.
T.E. Valeski, Senior Vice President of Marketing and Sales at Mattel
Electronics, along with a group of investors, purchased the assets, trademarks,
patents, and right to the Intellivision in January of 1984 for $16.5 million
dollars. The purchase was backed by financing from Tangible Industries, a
division of Revco Drug Stores, The newly formed company was originally called
Intellivision, Inc., and later renamed INTV, Inc., after Valeski negotiated all
rights from Revco in November of 1984. During the next two years, the new
company would lie dormant while plans were being made for a re-emergence.

In the fall of 1985, the INTV System III (also called the Super Pro System)
appeared at Toys 'R Us, Kiddie City, and in a mail order catalog sent to owners
of the original Intellivision direct from INTV. The new console was of the same
general design as the original master component, except it sported a fresh
black plastic shell with brushed aluminum trim. Several new games accompanied
the release of the new system, and 1985 would register over $6 million dollars
in sales worldwide, indicating that INTV Corp. had indeed revived the
Intellivision. INTV continued to market games and repair services through the
mail with great success. Between 1985 and 1990 over 35 new games were released,
bringing the Intellivision's game library to a total of 125 titles.

Many more changes were to come during the final six years of Intellivision's
useful life. In 1987, an improved master component called the INTV System IV
was shown at the January CES, which sported detachable controllers and a timing
device. Unfortunately, this never saw the light either. In the fall of 1988,
INTV re-introduced the computer keyboard adapter through their mail order
catalog on a limited quantity basis. In 1990, INTV discontinued retail sales of
thier games and equipment and sold them only through the mail channels. The
change in marketing was due to agreements with Nintendo and Sega to become a
software vendor for the NES, Game Boy and Genesis. In 1991, INTV sold out its
stock of Intellivision games and consoles, and the company, along with the
Intellivision, gradually faded into black.

Related Information

   * Intellivision FAQ
   * Intellivision Cartridge List
   * Mattel Strikes Back from the October/November 1983 issue of Video Games
     Player

Pictures

   * Mattel Intellivision console
   * Super Video Arcade Intellivision clone
   * Original keyboard expansion
   * Original keyboard expansion [alternate picture]
   * Intellivoice Voice Synthesizer
   * Intellivision II
   * Entertainment Computer System
   * ECS 49-key music synthesizer
   * System Changer 2600 adapter
   * Page from an Intellivision catalog about the unit itself

[PREV] [UP] [NEXT]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dennis Brown, dgb@owlnet.rice.edu, creator and maintainer. E-Mail me with
corrections and additions. All contents copyright 1996, Dennis Brown. All
trademarks are properties of their respective companies.
