.ad l
.nh
.TH bindump 1 "21 February 1996" "My Utilities"
.SH NAME
bindump - dump files as binary data.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "bindump"
[ \fI-h\fP ] [ \fI-a\fP ] [ \fI-n NNN\fP ] [ \fI-r BB\fP ] \fIfile\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
dump files to screen as binary data.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To dump a file to screen, use
.PP
.B
     bindump myfile
.PP
To dump a file to screen but suppress ascii output, use
.PP
.B
     bindump -a myfile
.PP
To dump a file to screen but set block size to 512, use
.PP
.B
     bindump -n 512 myfile

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B "-h"
get help on options.

.TP 5
.B "-a"
suppress ascii output.

.TP 5
.B "-n \fINNN\fP"
set block size to NNN bytes.

By default, block size is set to 256 bytes.  There is no maximum or minimum
block size.

.TP 5
.B "-r \fIBB\fP"
set bytes per row to BB bytes.

By default, bytes per row is set to 16 bytes.  There is no maximum or
minimum bytes per row.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1996 Whirling Dervish Software, Incorporated
.PP
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation, and that the name of Whirling Dervish Software, 
Incorporated not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
distribution of the software without specific, written prior
permission.  Whirling Dervish Software, Incorporated makes no representations
about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
"as is" without express or implied warranty.
.PP
Whirling Dervish Software, Incorporated disclaims all warranties with regard
to this software, including all implied warranties of merchantability
and fitness, in no event shall Whirling Dervish Software, Incorporated be
liable for any special, indirect or consequential damages or any
damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether
in an action of contract, negligence or other tortuous action, arising
out of or in connection with the use or performance of this software.
.SH AUTHORS
Brian Lingard, Whirling Dervish Software, Incorporated
