.ad l
.nh
.TH thuria 1 "29 October 1998" "Games"
.SH NAME
thuria - Dungeons of Thuria text adventure.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "thuria"
[ \fI-h\fP ] [ \fI-n\fP ] [ \fI-s file.sav\fP ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Runs the Dungeons of Thuria text adventure.  Once
the game has started you can either read the built
in instructions or type "help" to list the available
commands.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To show help screen, use
.PP
.B
     thuria -h
.PP
To suppress introduction, use
.PP
.B
     thuria -n
.PP
To load a saved game, use
.PP
.B
     thuria -s file.sav

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B "-h"
get help on options.

.TP 5
.B "-n"
suppress introduction.

.TP 5
.B "-s \fIfile.sav\fP"
load file.sav as saved game.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1998, Brian Lingard, Whirling Dervish Software.
.PP
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation, and that the name of Whirling Dervish Software 
not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
distribution of the software without specific, written prior
permission.  Whirling Dervish Software makes no representations
about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
"as is" without express or implied warranty.
.PP
Whirling Dervish Software disclaims all warranties with regard
to this software, including all implied warranties of merchantability
and fitness, in no event shall Whirling Dervish Software be
liable for any special, indirect or consequential damages or any
damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether
in an action of contract, negligence or other tortuous action, arising
out of or in connection with the use or performance of this software.
.SH AUTHORS
Brian Lingard, Whirling Dervish Software.
