.ad l
.TH CCBUILD 1 "07 May 1999" "3Com"
.SH NAME
ccbuild - build script for SMM project under ClearCase.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ccbuild" \fI<viewname>\fP [\fI<target> <level>\fP] [\fInomail\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Performs build of the SMM code within a ClearCase view.  The specified
\fI<viewname>\fP is verified to exist and that it matches the current view.
Note that the view name parameter is only a portion of the full ClearCase
view tag -- <username>_<project>_<viewname>.
.PP
The script produces a "make_log" and an "error_log" in the directory
"/vobs/hdm_root".  The script also produces a "time_log" in the same 
directory for timing the build process.
.PP
The \fI<target>\fP parameter specifies the build target as either "ALL" 
or one of the standard make targets supported by the SMM code tree.  The
\fI<level>\fP parameter specifies the level of the build, or which 
directory is used like "root" or "reva/proj".
.PP
By default the script will email the "error_log" file to the user
running the script.  This behavior can be stopped by using the optional
parameter [\fInomail\fP].

.SH FIELDS
.TP 5
.B "<viewname>" - view name.

Name of a ClearCase view as specified by the "mkv" command.  Verified
to exist and that it matches current view.

.TP 5
.B "<target>" - build target.

Valid as "ALL", "DV", "SMM", or "TEST".
Default is "SMM".

.TP 5
.B "<level>" - build level.

Valid as "root", or "proj".
Default is "root".

.TP 5
.B "[nomail]" - suppress email.

Suppress mailing of "error_log" to user.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To perform build using defaults, use
.PP
.B
     ccbuild dev_ne_switch
.PP
To perform build only at proj level, use
.PP
.B
     ccbuild dev_ne_switch TEST proj
.PP
To suppress email, use
.PP
.B
     ccbuild dev_ne_switch DV root nomail

.SH SEE ALSO
clearmake, gcc, ar, {GNU} make

.SH FILES
/millenniumvobs/smm_root/cctools/bin/smm_ccbuild.sh

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1999 3Com Corporation.

.SH AUTHORS
Brian Lingard, 3Com Corporation.
