.ad l
.TH CSGEN 1 "07 May 1999" "3Com"
.SH NAME
csgen - generate config spec templates for ClearCase.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "csgen" \fI<type>\fP [\fI<branch|release>\fP \fI<label|bp|cvsbr>\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The "csgen" command generates config spec templates that are compatible
with using the "mkv" command to create views.  
.PP
The first parameter \fI<type>\fP is used to indicate the type 
of config spec to be generated (see FIELDS).
.PP
The second parameter \fI<branch|release>\fP is used in the config 
spec file name as -- "smm_<branch|release>.cs".  The file is 
output to the current directory.
.PP
The third parameter \fI<label>\fP usage depends upon which type
of config spec is being generated.

.SH FIELDS
.TP 5
.B "<type>" - type of config spec.

Valid types are -- REL, DEV, INT, BUG, or ER.

.TP 5
.B "<branch|release>"

Branch name for DEV, INT, BUG, and ER types, release label for REL type.

.TP 5
.B "<label>"

Release label for ER type.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To create config spec for a release, use
.PP
.B
    csgen REL REL_SMM_PROD_01.00.00
.PP
To create config spec for a new development feature, use
.PP
.B
    csgen DEV dev_ne_feature
.PP
To create config spec for a new development feature, use
.PP
.B
    csgen INT int_ne_smm_beta_01.03.00
.PP
To create config spec for a bug fix view, use
.PP
.B
    csgen BUG dev_ne_mr225
.PP
To create config spec for a new engineering release, use
.PP
.B
    csgen ER smm_er_01.05.00 REL_SMM_PROD_01.05.00

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables are used by the script.
.PP
PROJECT
    Variable defines current project.

.SH SEE ALSO
mkv(1), cleartool man config_spec

.SH FILES
/millenniumvobs/smm_root/cctools/bin/smm_csgen.pl
.PP
/millenniumvobs/smm_root/cctools/config.spec/*.cs

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1999 3Com Corporation.

.SH AUTHORS
Brian Lingard, 3Com Corporation.
