.ad l
.TH FM 1 "07 May 1999" "3Com"
.SH NAME
fm - branch merge script for ClearCase.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "fm" \fI<ALL|vob>\fP \fI<src_branch>\fP [\fIprint|merge|grmerge|qualify\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Using the cleartool findmerge command, the script performs a branch to 
branch merge tailored for the SMM project.  
.PP
It assumes that the destination branch is your current view.  Checkout 
comments are suppressed.  The script performs reserved checkouts for 
merged files.
.PP
The script will verify that you are in a ClearCase view.  However, the 
source branch is not verified to exist.

.SH FIELDS
.TP 5
.B "<ALL|vob>" - ALL or VOB name.

"ALL" will perform merge for all HDM VOBs as defined by CLEARCASE_AVOBS
environment variable.  Also valid for "smm_root", "smm_sw", "smm_sc", 
"lynx", or "3party".

.TP 5
.B "<src_branch>" - source branch name.

Valid for any existing ClearCase branch type.  The branch type is not
verified to exist.

.TP 5
.B "[print|merge|grmerge|qualify]" - merge type.

- "print" mode performs no actual merge.
.br
- "merge" mode is best for trivial or automatic merges.
.br
- "grmerge" mode pops up graphical merge tool for file conflicts.
.br
- "qualify" mode requires confirmation of every merge decision via 
the popup graphical merge tool.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To get preview of merge, use
.PP
.B
     fm ALL dev_ne_feature print
.PP
To perform trivial or automatic merge, use
.PP
.B
     fm smm_sw dev_ne_feature merge
.PP
To pop up graphical merge tool on file conflicts, use
.PP
.B
     fm smm_root dev_ne_feature grmerge

.SH ENVIRONMENT
CLEARCASE_AVOBS variable defines which VOBs are in the "ALL" VOBs set.

.SH SEE ALSO
cleartool, cleartool man findmerge

.SH FILES
/millenniumvobs/smm_root/cctools/bin/smm_fm.sh

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1999 3Com Corporation.

.SH AUTHORS
Brian Lingard, 3Com Corporation.
