.ad l
.TH MKTYPE 1 "07 May 1999" "3Com"
.SH NAME
mktype - make data type in ClearCase.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "mktype" \fI<type>\fP \fI<comment>\fP \fI<name>\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
The "mktype" command makes new data types for a user.  These data 
types are branch, label, and attribute.  The new data type is created
in each VOB as specified by the environment variable CLEARCASE_AVOBS.

All types are created without the replace option, thus if a specified 
\fI<name>\fP already exists, the command will fail and exit.

Attribute and label types will be created as shared.  Attribute types will
be created as integer values, with no default value specified.

.SH FIELDS
.TP 5
.B "<type>" - data type to make.

Valid types are -- br[anch], la[bel], or at[tribute].

.TP 5
.B "<comment>" - comment option.

Valid comment strings are -- -c "string", -cfile <file_name>, or -nc

.TP 5
.B "<name>" - name for data type.

Name of the branch, label, or attribute.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To create a new development branch type, use
.PP
.B
     mktype br -nc dev_ne_feature
.PP
To create a new integration branch type, use
.PP
.B
     mktype br -nc int_ne_smm_beta_01.03.00
.PP
To create a new label type, use
.PP
.B
     mktype la -c "release for FCS" REL_SMM_PROD_01.05.00
.PP
To create a new attribute type, use
.PP
.B
     mktype at -nc mrnum

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables are used by the script.
.PP
CLEARCASE_AVOBS
    Variable defines which VOBs are in the "ALL" VOBs set.
.PP
PROJECT
    Variable defines current project.

.SH SEE ALSO
cleartool man mkbrtype, cleartool man mklbtype, cleartool man mkattype

.SH FILES
/net/fridge/sun4/usr/cctools/bin/mktype.pl

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1999 3Com Corporation.

.SH AUTHORS
Brian Lingard, 3Com Corporation.
