.ad l
.TH MKV 1 "07 May 1999" "3Com"
.SH NAME
mkv - make a view for ClearCase.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "mkv" \fI<viewname>\fP 

.SH DESCRIPTION
The "mkv" command creates a ClearCase view using the 
specified \fI<viewname>\fP parameter as a portion of the ClearCase 
view tag as follows -- <username>_<project>_<viewname>.  

A config spec with the file name "hdm_<viewname>.cs" is automatically
associated with the new view.  This config spec must exist in one of the
following directories -- $CCHOME/config.spec, $PROJHOME/config.spec, or
$HOME/config.spec.  If no matching config spec is found in the listed 
directories, the command fails and exits.

Once created, the new view is accessed using the "sv" command, and can be
removed using the "rv" command.

.SH FIELDS
.TP 5
.B "<viewname>" - view name.

View name is a portion of the full ClearCase view tag having the 
format <username>_<project>_<viewname>.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To create a view for main LATEST, use
.PP
.B
     mkv main
.PP
To create a view for a development branch, use
.PP
.B
     mkv dev_ne_feature
.PP
To create a view for an integration branch, use
.PP
.B
     mkv int_ne_smm_beta_01.03.00
.PP
To create a view for a bug fix branch, use
.PP
.B
     mkv dev_ne_mr225
.PP
To create a view for an engineering release branch, use
.PP
.B
     mkv smm_er_01.05.00

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables are used by the script.
.PP
CCHOME
    Variable defines primary location for config specs.
.PP
PROJHOME
    Variable defines secondary location for config specs.
.PP
HOME
    Variable defines tertiary location for config specs.

.SH SEE ALSO
sv(1), rv(1), cleartool man mkview

.SH FILES
/net/fridge/sun4/usr/cctools/bin/mkv.pl

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1999 3Com Corporation.

.SH AUTHORS
Brian Lingard, 3Com Corporation.
