		  R.A.B BOOKSTORES LIST: CAMBRIDGE/BOSTON
			    [Updated: 30AUG95]

This is a list of many of what are, to my mind, some of the
better/larger/more important bookstores in the Cambridge/Boston area. I've
tried to be somewhat selective and this list is far from exhaustive. Each
entry contains the name of the bookstore, address and (if appropriate)
nearest T-Stop together with a short description of the bookstore.

     Sections:
  1. GENERAL/FULL-SERVICE BOOKSTORES
  2. USED BOOKSTORES
  3. UNIVERSITY (BOOKSTORES AND PRESSES)
  4. POETRY
  5. FOREIGN BOOKS
  6. THEOLOGY/RELIGION
  7. CHILDREN'S BOOKS
  8. TECHNICAL BOOKSTORES
  9. MALL/MEGA-STORES
 10. MISCELLANY
 11. MAGAZINES, ETC.
 12. RELATED NON-BOOK STUFF
 13. MAILING-LISTS, ETC.
 14. E-LINKS

I've received lots of excellent comments, etc. I've incorporated a great
deal of this below, sometime quoting wholesale if I knew nothing about the
store in question or there was a significant difference of opinion. Also, I
have kept a list of all comments (which is actually twice the length of the
original list) and will be glad to email on request.

CONCERNING HARVARD SQUARE [Hereafter: HSq]:
In this list there is a lot of emphasis on Cambridge, and in particular on
Harvard Square. I'm assuming that most people using this list (tourists,
weekend-visitors, etc.) probably want the biggest book-buying bang per buck.
And around here that clearly means Harvard Square.

BTW, Most HSq bookstores carry the "Bookstores of Harvard Square" guide.
Pick up a copy; it'll make getting around a whole lot easier.

Information concerning phone numbers, discounts, etc. is intended to be
correct and up-to-date. However I'm only human, so all Standard
Disclaimers[tm] apply.

Nichael Cramer
nichael@bbn.com
http://www.sover.net/~nichael
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

----- 1. GENERAL/FULL-SERVICE BOOKSTORES

WORDSWORTH

     30 Brattle St. [TStop=HSq Ph=354-5201]
     Web Site: http://www.wordsworth.com
     E-mail Orders: orders@wordsworth.com
     The flag-ship of HSq book shops. 100,000+ titles. All books
     (except texts and special orders) discounted (10% on paperbacks,
     15% on Hardcovers and 30% on N.Y.T hardcover bestsellers) (no
     discounts on texts) and 35%? off on NYT bestseller hbs)
     Knowledgeable, friendly staff. Open early, open late (Mon-Sat
     9-11:15, Sun 10-10:15; closed Thanksgiving and Christmas).
     Recently expanded. Also recently opened a separate
     posters/calendar shop down the street (5 Brattle Street). If you
     have time for only one stop, come here.
     [Gopher server at gopher.wordsworth.com, where you can search a
     subset of the database, by title or author. --Sanj]
     [It might be worth mentioning that Wordsworth has one of the best
     rare-book search services around. They've found a number of rare
     books for me, and are often remarkably quick about it. The prices
     are usually reasonable, too. --Peter Maranci]

HARVARD BOOKSTORE

     1256 Mass Ave. [TStop=HSq]
     Full-service bookstore. Nice classical and remaindered sections. A
     fairly good used-book section (and remaindereds) in the basement.
     (In spite of name, not associated with Harvard so far as I know.)
     Currently doing a
     stamp-your-ticket-for-every-$10-and-get-30%-off-you-next-purchase-after-ten-stamps
     sale.

HARVARD COOP

     1400 Mass Ave. [TStop=HSq Ph=492-1000]
     Pronounced "koop". The official "college bookstore" of Harvard.
     Three floors of books. (Also clothes, school supplies, etc.)
     Currently has 10% discount even for non- coop-members (text
     probably not included). Good source for that weird anthro text
     you've always wanted. Also has a good music store and poster shop.

M.I.T. COOP

     Cambridge Center. [TStop=Kendall Sq Ph=491-4230]
     The (smaller) M.I.T. analogue of the above.

CHARLESBANK BOOKSHOP

     Kenmore Square, Boston. [TStop=Kenmore Sq]
     Huge store. Contains, as a single component, the Boston University
     Bookstore. Books, magazines, maps, etc. etc.
     [Better than either the Harvard or MIT Coop's for serious
     non-fiction. Also a place of last resort for obscure technical
     volumes (they had the only copy of a Human Genetics text in the
     city). --William Loos]

WATERSTONES

     Corner of Exeter and Newbury, Boston. [TStop=Copley Sq]
     The Boston branch of the famous London bookstore. Again, hmmm... I
     dunno. Very tony: lots of nice carpets and pretty bookshelves.
     Plenty of books, but they could have made the store one-third its
     present size. A friend summed it up best: "A nice bookstore, not a
     great bookstore".

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

----- 2. USED BOOKSTORES

[NOTE: Often the phrase "used book store" is used to mean something like
"paperback junk shop". This is not true in these cases; Harvard Square alone
has four[*] great used book shops.]
[* Sigh, make that three now]

PANGLOSS BOOKSHOP

     65 Mt Auburn. [TStop=HSq Ph=354-4003]
     Focus on humanities and social sciences. Seems to be primarily
     hardback. Weird double shelving scheme. Nice selection of "small"
     journals and magazines that you'd never see anywhere else.
     [OK, here's the poop. I spoke with the new owner and got a summary
     of their various endeavours. It's like this:
     1) As far as the type of books they handle now, there will be no
     change -- it will still be the place to go for used scholarly
     books.
     2) They're adding Antiquarian books to their repetoire.
     3) He didn't mention it, but I noticed a small fiction section,
     which they didn't have before (very highbrow, of course).
     4) Physical changes: they're re-doing the interior to make the
     store somewhat lighter and more open and are also turning a back
     storeroom into store, so there will be more shelf space.
     5) They're expanding their hours (I forget whether these are part
     of your list): M-S 10-10 and Sun 12-6 (this means they're now in
     the same ballpark as MacIntyre and Moore).
     6) They are at this moment actively buying. If all this works out,
     it may wind up remaining as good or possibly even improving. -
     William D.B. Loos]

MCINTRYRE AND MOORE BOOKSELLERS

     8 Mt Auburn St. [TStop=HSq Ph=491-0662]
     General used books. They have an excellent selection of history
     and other non-fiction, but their fiction section is relatively
     small. My personal favorite (i.e. I can find something here I want
     a tad more often than the other places listed).

THE BOOK CASE (AND ANNEX)

     42 Church St. [TStop=HSq Ph=876-0832]
     [R.I.P --N]

STARR BOOKSHOP

     92 Plympton. [TStop=HSq Ph=547-6864]
     In the back half of the Harvard Lampoon building. Be sure to check
     out the "new" used book section (i.e. first dibs before these new
     acquires get shelved --this seems to be a default place to dump
     review copies). Surliest staff on the east coast.

BOOKCELLAR CAFE

     [TStop=Porter Square]
     [I noticed that The Bookcellar Cafe is not on your list and I
     think it would be a good addition. It seems to be affiliated with
     Ave. Victor Hugo, (the bookmark/advert has Bookcellar Cafe on one
     side, Ave. Victor Hugo on the other). The selection is small but
     good, prices reasonable and they take used books in trade at a
     fair value. There is also a cafe in the back with poetry and prose
     readings, author talks, and various literary events as well as a
     weekly open mike for authors. Worth a look, esp. if you are going
     to Kate's since it is right down the street. All used books. Just
     north of Porter Square on Mass Ave in the cellar (obviously) below
     Bob Slate Stationers. -- Amy Mossman]
     [The Bookcellar Cafe' is indeed run by the Avenue Victor Hugo
     people. --Ron Newman]

BRATTLE BOOKSHOP

     9 West St, Boston. [TStop=Park St]
     Ancient. Also has "antiquarian" paraphernalia; e.g. autographs,
     etc. Nice old/used magazine selection.
     [Again, strongest on history and other non-fiction. Most of their
     paperbacks are $3/1 on a big unsorted table; you can usually find
     some good ones if you take the time to weed through it. --Sandra
     Loosemore]
     [They've added a section on science fiction, three shelves of
     which are paperback. It's not large but some quite good stuff has
     shown up in it. The reason, of course, is that their contacts are
     so good that a significant percent of all used books being sold
     sort of funnel to them automatically. --William Loos]

AVENUE VICTOR HUGO

     339, Newbury St, Boston. [Ph=266-7746, TStop=Hynes Convention
     Center/I.C.A.]
     [The best in Boston for used science fiction but they have much
     more. The shelves are about 12 feet high set in rows 40 or 50 feet
     long. The sf is half of one row (hardcover on one side, paper on
     the other), which is a huge selection , but only about 10% of the
     total. (And not just run of the mill sf either -- in one haul
     there I found four by William Morris, two by Charles Williams, and
     one by George MacDonald.) The overall selection contains something
     of everything. This is the place where *I've* found more stuff
     than any other. The prices though tend toward the high end.
     --William Loos]
     [He's added a section of "Collectable Paperbacks" -- the prices
     are what we've come to expect from him -- that is, not actually
     out of line, strictly speaking, but pushing the very high end of
     the range... --William Loos]
     [Perhaps it should be noted that the Avenue Victor Hugo cat
     unfortunately passed away recently. -- Peter Maranci]

HOUSE OF SARAH BOOKS

     [They've moved down the street, but I don't have the new address
     --N]

     [Small but *quite* good -- all the stock is in good condition
     (*and* very well ordered, which helps immensely). There tends to
     be a wide variety of topics with comparatively fewer in each
     topic. However, fiction, general religion, and history are fairly
     large. A specialty is Women in Religion (get it? "House of Sarah"
     as opposed to the "House of Abraham"). The owner is also quite
     nice. The prices on balance are toward the low end of this group
     of stores. --William Loos]
     [It might be worth noting that House of Sarah has a quantity of
     fiction and other books *upstairs* -- it's not obvious. I'd been
     there several times before I noticed that the small door on the
     side led upstairs to what seems to be an apartment with nothing
     but bookshelves and comfortable places to read. -- Peter Maranci]

BRYN MAWR BOOKSTORE

     373 Huron Ave. [Ph=661-1770]
     [A wide selection. All profits go to establish scholarships at
     Bryn Mawr and for this reason they don't buy books but only accept
     them as donations. One result is that a portion (but only a
     minority) of the books are not in as good condition as one would
     like. Another is that everything is significantly cheaper, being
     closer to 1/3 list price rather than the 1/2 which is the norm.
     --William Loos]

Blue Moon

     23 Central Street, Wellesley [Ph=239-1360,TStop=Wellesley Sq]
     Web Site: http://www.tiac.net/biz/bluemoon
     E-mail: bluemoon.bookshop@zembla.com
     [was ZEMBLA BOOKS]
     [Our actual street address is 23 Central Street in Wellesley, not
     9 Crest Road - through a fluke of architecture we can be reached
     from either, but the Post Office only believes in Central Street.
     --Blue Moon]
     [Pleasant small store w/used books, some good finds in the way of
     new review copies. -- Mark Eckenwiler]
     [Yet another good small one. It's most like the House of Sarah, in
     size, price, and quality of books. Being small, it's easier to
     keep things in order. All the books are in good condition and the
     prices tend towards the lower side. A good chance of finding
     something. --William Loos]

ARLINGTON BOOKS

     212 Massachusetts Ave. Arlington, 643-4473.
     [An eclectic mix of scholarly and general interest. Somewhat
     disorganized but a determined search can yield good books at
     reasonable prices. Note: closed Saturdays, open Sundays. --Keith
     Morgan]
     [Bus route 77 (note: _not_ 77A) from the Harvard Square station
     goes right by it; the store is about 5 blocks or so from the
     Cambridge/Arlington boundary, on the same block as the Capitol
     theater. -- Terry Gaetz]

CAMBRIDGE SCHOLARLY BOOKS

     ???JFK (across from Galleria) [TStop=HSq Ph=???]
     Branch of Arlington Books. Pretty good for its size.

DISKOVERY

     on Brighton Avenue, between Harvard Street and Linden.
     [You get both used books and used music here. This is quite a
     small shop, but it is an honest sort of smallness, not to be
     sneered at. The place is a mess, which makes it ideal for
     browsers. Comes complete with a middle aged Peruvian woman who
     plays rap most of the time and authentic black bookstore cat, as
     lazy as the best of them. --Gaurav Shah]

BROOKLINE VILLAGE BOOKSHOP

     Station St, Brookline [TStop=Brookline Village]
     [Used books. Strong on theater/arts, nautical, local history,
     sets. --Peter Smith]

BOSTON BOOK ANNEX

     906 Beacon St, Boston [TStop=1st above-ground stop on Cleveland
     Circle branch]
     [Used books. Strong in recent (last 20 years) hardcover fiction,
     history and politics. Open late. Good restaurants within 1 minute
     walk (Sol Azteca, Chef Chang's). --Peter Smith]

THE BOOK COLLECTOR

     375 Elliot St., Newton Upper Falls [TStop=Newton Highlands on
     Riverside branch, then bus #?? to corner of Elliot & Chestnut]
     [Used books. Better prices than in-town shops. Strong on
     children's, history, and reference. Not open nights or Sundays.
     --Peter Smith] UPPER STORY BOOKS, 1730 Mass Ave., Lexington.
     General used bookstore.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

----- 3. UNIVERSITY (BOOKSTORES AND PRESSES)

HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS DISPLAY ROOM

     1354 Mass Ave. (aka "The Shops by Harvard Yard" [TStop=HSq
     Ph=495-2625]
     The name says it all. A whole roomful of Loeb Classics (at a small
     discount, even).
     [More than a small discount. There's a whole section of books
     discounted due to damage. However, the damage is often slight.
     It's worth checking out, though the amount that different books
     are discounted seems to vary wildly. My impression is that it has
     to do with how long they've been trying to unload a given book.
     Very nice staff here also ... --William Loos]

MIT PRESS BOOKSTORE

     292 Main St. [TStop=Kendall Square Ph=253-5249]
     'nuf said.
     [MIT Press "Xpress" annex closed at the end of December. --Ron
     Newman]

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

----- 4. POETRY

GROLIER BOOK SHOP

     6 Plympton St. [TStop=HSq Ph=547-4648 or 1-800-234-POEM]
     I don't know what all to say about Groliers. As the sign on the
     door says "minimum of prose". Poetry to the ceiling. Like Ralph,
     if Louise doesn't have it --or know about it-- you can probably
     get along without it. Has to be seen to be believed. (BTW, they
     also do mail/phone/fax orders.)

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

----- 5. FOREIGN BOOKS

SCHOENHOF'S FOREIGN BOOKS

     76A Mt Auburn St. [TStop=HSq Ph=547-8855]
     Foreign language books; literature, non-fiction, language
     learning, etc. 160 languages in reference section.
     [I don't think the listing really does this place justice. Simply
     put, this is THE foreign bookstore for the entire east coast.
     Smartest sales staff in HSq, bar none. --Mark Eckenwiler]
     [Bookstores from all over the country refer people to Schoenhof's.
     --Laurie Mann]

SASUGA JAPANESE BOOKSTORE

     7 Upland Road [T-Stop=Porter; ph=497-5460]
     Books, magazines, comics, etc in Japanese, and (a smattering of)
     books in English about Japan.

     [See also Loeb classics at Harvard University Press Display Room
     above.]

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

----- 6. THEOLOGY/RELIGION

[NOTE: These stores are not "Religious" bookstores, per se; rather they are
bookstores that function as sources for the many seminaries and religious
schools in the Greater Boston area.]

DIVINITAS

     5 Magazine St. [TStop=Central Sq Ph=354-1114]
     Nice selection. Often has good prices on remaindered/damaged
     books. [Closed weekends and sometimes during school vacations.
     Also, if you're into the material, check out the HDS library while
     you're nearby. One of the best, if not the best, in the country.]

HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL BOOK STORE

     Francis St. [TStop=HSq]
     Again, name says it all.

MASSACHUSETTS BIBLE SOCIETY BOOKSTORE

     41 Bromfield, Boston [TStop=Park St]
     Smallish. Very "bible" oriented.

ISRAEL BOOKSTORE

     410 Harvard Street, Brookline. [Ph=566-7113]
     [More specialized, but worth mentioning. In their domain, they
     have an excellent selection. They give Starr a good run for least
     helpful staff, though. --Jonathan Delatizky]

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

----- 7. CHILDREN'S BOOKS

CHILDREN'S BOOK SHOP

     237 Washington, Brookline. [TStop=Brookline Village]
     Excellent selection.

SAVANNA BOOKS

     ??? Mass Ave. [TStop=HSq Ph=868-3423]
     (Note: I've never actually been here, but I've been told it's
     quite good.)
     [My impression is that they have children's books from all over
     the world, with special emphasis on the Third World and Africa in
     particular. --William Loos]

     [See also Wordsworths above.]

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

----- 8. TECHNICAL BOOKSTORES

QUANTUM BOOKS

     4 Cambridge Center. [TStop=Kendall Sq Ph=494-5042]
     Large selection of physics, math, etc. Rather computer-heavy.
     [They will give a 10% corporate discount, depending on where you
     work. I buy all my technical texts there, since the Wordsworth
     discount does not apply to textbooks. -- Dennis A. Franciskovich]

SOFTPRO BOOKS

     112 Mall Road, Burlington. [Ph=617-273-2919]
     E-mail: softpro@world.std.com
     [Near the Barnes and Nobles and Tower Records. They specialize in
     books related to computing; I think the selection is better than
     at Quantum Books. FAX 617-273-2499 -- Terry Gaetz]

     [See also MIT Coop and MIT Press Bookstore above.]

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

----- 9. MALL/MEGA-STORES

BORDERS' BOOKSTORE

     (in Framingham, RTE9, near Shoppers' World.)
     Another instantiation of the growing mega-chain. As giant chain
     stores go, this Borders is pretty good. (It remains to be seen,
     though, how well they survive the take-over by K-Mart.) My advice:
     don't make a special trip, but if you're (way!) out west, this'll
     probably be your best bet.

     A differing, more favorable opinion:
     [Borders is just about as good as any bookstore in the area. It
     has almost anything you're looking for, and has a nice,
     comfortable atmosphere, that encourages brousing. If you are on
     the T, you can probably do slightly better in Harvard Square
     (though not much better). However, if you are not convenient to
     the T, Borders is a much better bet than Harvard Square since they
     have lots of free parking. I talked to the manager about the
     K-Mart purchase. He thinks it won't hurt and may actually help.
     For example, they have been unable to add any new publishers to
     their extensive list in the last 6 months or a year due to
     software problems. The mananger thought K-Marts resources would
     allow them to fix this problem, and pick up yet more specialty
     publishers. -- Jim Mann]
     [Borders Books and Music, Peabody. Take 128 north to the 114 North
     exit, it's right there. Big 2-story standalone store across the
     street from Northshore Shopping Center. 100,000 titles, magazines,
     lots of expensive CDs as well. No latte yet (licensing/neighbor
     problems). -- Glenn Lea] [There is also a Border's near the North
     Shore Mall. You might mention that they don't discount like the
     stores in the square do, but that you can get a good cup of
     coffee, which out in the Edge Cities can often be very hard. --Ben
     Hyde]

BARNES AND NOBLES

     Downtown Crossing, Boston.
     (Also, an huge, new B&N has opened across from Burlington Mall,
     next to smallish Tower Records; well, smallish for Tower. Rumor
     has it that one is also opening in Newton Center.) A giant example
     of the famous chain. Basically a B Dalton's with a growth
     disorder.

ROYAL BOOKS

     Arlington Center ???
     [There is now a Royal Books in Arlington Center.
     It is my impression that there are three or four grades of these
     chain store book stores. Grade A are places like Borders and
     Barnes and Nobles. Royal, Lauriet's, etc. is the Grade B flavor,
     with Buck a book getting filed under D. In any case I enjoy Royal
     Books for their discount section of books that didn't quite make
     it. --Ben Hyde]

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

----- 10. MISCELLANY

GLOBE CORNER BOOKSTORE

     49 Palmer St. [TStop=HSq Ph=497-6277]
     Travel books, maps (USGS, ATC, NOAA, DMA), globes, atlases,
     related paraphernalia... If you're having trouble getting around
     Cambridge/Boston, this is the place for you. A branch of the
     original store, which is at the (suprise!) corner of School and
     Washington in downtown Boston.
     [There is also a small but good selection of 'travel literature'.
     -- Amy Mossman]
     [Opened a new branch at 500 Boylston Street in the Back Bay. --
     Ron Newman]

SEVEN STARS

     58 JFK St. [TStop=HSq]
     Standard college-town occult/NewAge bookshop.

GLOBAL VILLAGE BOOKS

     111 Mt Auburn St [T-Stop=HSq; ph=491-8788]
     NewAge.

ODYSSEY SELF-DISCOVERY BOOKSHOP

     207 Newbury St, Boston [ph=437-7070]
     NewAge.

GLAD DAY BOOKSTORE

     673 Boylston. [TStop=Copley Sq]
     I forget what the acronym stands for (Gay and Lesbian ...something
     or the other). On the second floor so it can be a little easy to
     miss. Has sort of a split personality: as you enter, the back half
     is basically an adult bookstore. The front is what one might call
     a full-service gay bookstore (i.e. they seem to carry about any
     book available that has so much as a single gay character).
     Postcards, records, tapes, etc.

NEW WORDS

     186 Hampshire St, Cambridge. [Ph=876-5310 TDD=876-3340]
     One block from Inman Square, down Hampshire St, towards Kendall Sq
     Feminist/women's bookstore. Cards, journals, music.

CRONES HARVEST

     761 Centre St, Jamaica Plain [ph=983-9529]
     Women's and Lesbian studies.

KATE'S MYSTERY BOOKS

     2211 Mass Ave, Cambridge. [Ph=491-2680]
     KATE'S is to mysteries what GROLIERS is to poetry. The bottom half
     of a house filled with books. Great black cat collection. Seems to
     have lots of readings and signings. (See if you can find the
     secret panel/doorway in the back room.)
     [I'd say the best access via subway would be Porter, not Davis.
     Actually, a #77 or #77A from Harvard Sq. should drop one right in
     front of the door. --Keith Morgan]
     [Kate's Mystery Books really is closer to Davis than to Porter.
     That's my neighborhood, I live right around the corner. --Ron
     Newman]

SPENCER'S MYSTERY BOOKSHOP

     ?? Newbury St. [TStop=Hynes Convention Center/I.C.A.]
     [It's about a block down Newbury St. from the Avenue Victor Hugo.
     The selection and atmosphere isn't quite the same as Kate's, but
     it's a more convenient location. Both places have a good selection
     of used books, too. --Sandra Loosemore]

REVOLUTION BOOKS

     1156 Mass Ave, HSq [TStop=HSq Ph=492-5443]
     Well, it is Cambridge...
     [It was suggested that I make clear that "revolution" in this
     context does not mean "as in 1776". The store is run by the RCP
     (the Revolutionary Communist Party). --N]

     Others seem to prefer the following:

LUCY PARSONS CENTER

     3 Central Sq, Camb. [TStop=Central Sq. Ph=497-9934]
     Used to be Red Book Store. Has no formal political affiliation.

PANDEMONIUM BOOKS

     36 JFK St (The Garage). [TStop=HSq Ph=547-3721]
     The kind little SF shop that you would expect to find in HSq.
     [Devoted to sf/fantasy/gaming and has 10% discounts. They carry
     some specialty press stuff not available elsewhere the Square. And
     they'll discount at least some of it. Picked up a copy of the new
     edition of the SF Encyclopedia, a list $75 book, for 15% off
     before sales tax last month. --tyg]

BUCK-A-BOOK

     30 JFK [HSq] (and various other locations).
     TONS of remaindereds at one dollar (some for more). The ones I've
     been in seemed to have no discernable shelving system. Great for
     the fanatic browser, or if you need to buy gifts where poundage is
     the prime concern. Way cheap, but you get what you pay for.
     [Others in Davis Sq, Government Center, Tremont St across from
     Park St Station, Boylston near Copley Sq. --Ron Newman]

     [I've been swarmed by mail from people who love Buck-a-Book and
     feel I'm giving it short shrift. Again, I'm not terribly impressed
     by it, but lots of people swear by it. Son gout and and all
     that...]

WGBH LEARNINGSMITH

     [HSq across from Wordsworth]
     (Also a slightly larger one in Chestnut Hill Mall.) Not really
     books, but still interesting. Mostly tie-ins for various PBS
     series. Educational toys, games, puzzles. Lots of videos (where
     else you going to find a complete copy of the Masterpiece Theater
     production of "Love for Lydia"?)

NEW ENGLAND MOBILE BOOK FAIR

     82 Needham St, Newton.
     Huge warehouse of a store. It has three sections: hardbacks,
     paperbacks and remaindereds, each section being as big as any
     other bookstore you've probably ever been in. All at discount
     prices. (Warning: except for a few specialty sections, most books
     are sorted by Publisher alphabetical by TITLE! This makes browsing
     nearly impossible, and it can be pretty overwhelming your first
     time there, but if you know what you want, it can be a good deal.
     Copies of Books in Print all over the place.) No one seems to why
     it's called "Mobile".
     [New England Mobile Bookfair has the word Mobile in its name
     because it warehouses books for school bookfairs. --Laurie Mann]

CAMBRIDGE ARCHITECTRURAL

     12 Bow St. [T-Stop=HSq; ph=354-5300]
     International design,architecture and landscaping.

L.J. HARRI

     120 Lewis Wharf, Boston. [ph=248-0996]
     Nautical books, maps and charts.
     [I was recently reminded that the USS Constitution Museum Gift
     Shop (at the Charlestown Navy Yard) used to carry some books on
     naval history, sailing, and other nautical matters that you might
     not find elsewhere in the city. It's been a few years since I've
     been to the shop myself, though. --Sandra Loosemore]

TOWER RECORDS

     Mass Ave/Newbury Street [TStop=Hynes Convention Center/I.C.A.]
     [The first floor has a growing selection of books. Selection is
     odd, but very interesting. Good for music/art books, fiction,
     lifestyle books and current best sellers, which are priced at 30%
     off; everything else at least 10%. Periodic sales of everything at
     30% off. --Glenn Lea]

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

----- 11. MAGAZINES, ETC.

OUT OF TOWN NEWS

     0[!] Harvard Sq. [TStop=HSq]
     A Cambridge Fixture. Newspapers from all over. Good Magazine
     selection.
     [According to an article in yesterday's (10JUL94) Globe OoTN is
     being sold to a major new distributor from --if you'll excuse the
     expression-- New Jersey. --N]

     BTW, if you're a Click'n'Clack fan, look up on the second floor,
     on the building across the street (towards Wordsworth, and you can
     see the offices of "Dewey Cheatem and Howe").

NINI'S CORNER

     [TStop=HSq]
     Right across the street from OUT OF TOWN NEWS. To my taste, a
     better magazine selection.

TOWER RECORDS

     Burlington Mall [Across the parking lot from Barnes and Nobles]
     Large selection, specializing in "non-standard" stuff.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

----- 12. RELATED NON-BOOK STUFF

There are also a lot of nearby sites you may want to check out.

Henry (and Alice and William Sr and Jr) James' graves in CambridgeC
Cemetery.

"Authors Ridge" at the cemetery in Concord (the graves of Thoreau, Emerson,
L M Alcott and [?]).

Out at Amherst is the Emily Dickinson house and grave.

Walden Pond is just down the road at Concord. If you come, be sure to bring
a rock with you (really!). At the site of Thoreau's cabin is a cairn of
rocks that has built up over the years by people who have brought rocks from
their homes.

[It might be getting a little far afield but since you mention Emily
Dickinson in Amherst, I would plug for Edith Wharton's and Melville's homes
in the Berkshires. Wharton's is especially lovely and since she lived there
for a time before decamping for Europe there is a good sense of her
presence. --Keith Morgan]

[There is also Louisa May Alcott's house (Well, okay, her family's house)
where she did her writing and scattered bits and pieces of the real life
Little Women, Little Men stories. -- Amy Mossman]

[And related sites...Cambridge Common, floating across it like a transparent
eyeball (Emerson, no?)
...the grave of the woman who might have been the model for The Scarlett
Letter, next to Kings Chapel
...The Old Manse, in Concord (mosses and all)
...The Salem Witch museum, which used to lift large portions of Arthur
Miller's "The Crucible" whole (and probably without permission) for the
narration in their chamber of horrors history of the witch trials
...The Grist Mill (Longfellow) in Marlborough --Lisa Chabot]

[Lowell, MA, childhood home of Jack Kerouac: Lowell was lucky enough to be
poor during the 1950s and 1960s, which were good years for Beat literature
but bad years for architecture. Hence, most of the sites mentioned in his
books are still standing, as are most of the places where his family lived.
There are too many of both to list here, but there are several books which
list all this stuff. Of particular interest is his gravesite in Edson's
Cemtery (off Route 3A), where's he buried next to his wife Stella. The
Visitor's center at the Lowell National Historic Park downtown has lots of
info for Kerouac-seeking tourists. -- Tim Horrigan]

[The grave of Harriet Beecher Stowe is in the small cemetary on the grounds
of Phillips Academy, Andover. While she didn't write Uncle Tom's Cabin in
Andover, she later moved there with her husband, who taught at Phillips, and
lived on or near the campus until her death in 1896. -- Mike Timko]

Readings and Such...

[Charlesbank, Wordsworth, Harvard Bookstore, Borders', and Kate's are very
strong on author appearances and readings and visitors might want to call up
and find out if anyone they're interested in is doing one while they're in
the area. Waterstone's may also be, but I'm less sure on them. --tyg]

[Also, while there's no central local source for listing for readings, etc,
you can usually get some idea what's happening in the Globe's Weekend
section (put out on Thursdays) and The Phoenix --N]

[Bookcellar Cafe has gotten very big on author and music (and both)
appearance. You can get on their mailing list and you'll get a monthly
calendar of events. I've never been but it was mentioned in a Globe article
last week so it must be getting big. --Amy Mossman]

[Might want to mention that The Phoenix is also out on Thursday. Last
Phoenix of the month has their Literary Suppliment, including a calendar for
the next month of readings and signings in the area. The Tab chain also has
a similar monthly calendar, but I'm less sure on when it's out. --tyg]

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

----- 13. MAILING-LISTS, ETC.

Boston-book is a new e-mail group for avid readers in the Boston area.
Discussion on this group include talk about all types of books, old
and new; booklists of personal favorites; reviews and discussion of
local bookstores and libraries; and news and reviews on local
book-related talks and events.  Authors, librarians, booksellers and
publishing people are welcome to participate, but the focus of the
group is on the individual reader.

Messgaes to the group should be addresses to :
Boston-book@world.std.com To subscribe, send the following message to

        majordomo@world.std.com :
        SUBSCRIBE Boston-book [your name]
                                                Elizabeth B. Thomsen
                                                Library Management Associates
                                                libmgmt@world.std.com

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

----- 14. E-Links

Stores with HomePages:

   * Bluemoon
   * Wordsworths

Stores with Email:

   * Bluemoon
   * Wordsworths
   * Softpro Books

Other List Sites:

   * Southern Vermont Area Bookstores List.
     http://www.sover.net/~nichael/svbooks/
     (This is a list, similar to this one, that I'm organizing for the
     Southern Vermont region.
     Warning: I've just started. Highly rudamentary.)

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Comments, corrections, additions, etc, from:

Ron Newman (rnewman@BBN.COM)
Sandra Loosemore (loosemore-sandra@CS.YALE.EDU)
tyg (Tom Galloway) tyg@hq.ileaf.com
Dave Murphy (djmurphy@wam.umd.edu)
Scott Drown (drown@alliant.com)
William D.B. Loos (LOOS@Frodo.MGH.Harvard.EDU)
eck@panix.com (Mark Eckenwiler)
Jonathan Delatizky (delatizk@BBN.COM)
Dave Murphy (djmurphy@wam.umd.edu)
gary@futon.SFSU.EDU (Gary Hoo)
Dennis A. Franciskovich (daf@loghost)
Evelyn C Leeper (ecl@mtgzy.att.com)
Keith Morgan (kamorgan@Athena.MIT.EDU)
Lisa Chabot (Lisa.Chabot@Eng.Sun.COM)
Jim Mann (jmann@transarc.com)
Keith Morgan (kamorgan@Athena.MIT.EDU)
Terry Gaetz (gaetz@cfa.harvard.edu)
Gaurav Shah (gaurav@buphy.bu.edu)
Amy Mossman (mossman@cfassp3.harvard.edu)
Tim Horrigan (horrigan@hanover-crrel.army.mil)
Peter Smith (Peter_Smith@dgc.ceo.dg.com)
Laurie Mann (lmann@telerama.lm.com)
Elizabeth B. Thomsen (libmgmt@world.std.com)
S. Kharbanda (sanj@wordsworth.com)
Glenn Lea (gwl@apollo.hp.com)
Martin Slade (marty@bvd.jpl.nasa.gov)
Peter Maranci (maranci@max.tiac.net)
Mike Timko (Michael.Timko@analog.com)
Ben Hyde (bhyde@gensym.com)
As always, corrections, comments, additions, etc., actively solicited. --N
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

An ascii version of this list is available at:
ftp://ftp.bbn.com/pub/ncramer/books/bookstores-list.txt

Or via anonymous FTP at:

host: ftp.bbn.com
path: /pub/ncramer/books/bookstores-list.txt
