                               [ Beyond Books ]
              [Image] H.P. Lovecraft in the Movies [Image] [Image]

Greetings

 I am sure Lovecraft would be rolling in his grave if he could
 see the film adaptations of his eldritch stories. It would be a
 horror beyond his darkest contemplation. There are just some
 things man was not meant to view...

 Within this page, I have tried to capture information of all
 the film adaptations of the works of HPL. I have tried to cite
 the story the movie was based on (if any) as well as a quote
 from either the movie or the HPL story. If you find an entry
 for a film is missing (either domestic or foreign) please email  [Image]
 me at beyond@teleport.com and I will correct this shortcoming    [Image]
 as soon as possible and give you credit for bringing this page
 up to date.

 In the near future, there will be additional interviews with
 some of the individuals behind the scenes of these films as
 well as sound clips, pictures and anything else I can dredge
 up.

 Until then remember to listen to the whip-poor-wills...

[Image]

     TABLE OF CONTENTS
        o In the Mouth of Madness (1995)
        o Lurking Fear (1994)
        o Witch Hunt (HBO 1994)
        o Necronimocon (1993)
        o To Cast a Deadly Spell (HBO 1993)
        o The Resurrected (1991)
             + Checkout the interview from screenwriter Brent V. Friedman.
        o Cthulhu Mansion (1990)
        o Bride of Re-Animator (1990)
        o The UnNamable (1988)
        o The Curse (1987)
        o From Beyond (1986)
        o Re-Animator (1985)
        o The Music of Erich Zann (1980)
             + Checkout the interview with director John Strysik.
        o The Dunwich Horror (1970)
        o The Shuttered Room (1968)
        o Die, Monster, Die! (1965)
        o The Haunted Palace (1963)

(Back to Beyond Books Home Page)

[Image]

[Previous]  The Haunted Palace (1963) [Next]

Actors                                                         [Vincent Price]

   * Vincent Price
   * Lon Chaney jr.

Director

   * Roger Corman

Quote

     To Him Who Shal Come After, And How He May Gett Beyonde Time and Ye
     Spheres

Review

The title is by Edgar Allen Poe but the story, The Case of Charles Dexter Ward,
is by H.P. Lovecraft. A descendant must deal with the spirit of his
17th-century warlock ancestor who was burned at the stake for being a witch.
Unlike the HPL story, the mechanism in which Vincent's ancestor is brought back
from the dead is through possession. The monster (a deep one I suppose) is
borrowed from the set of The Creature from the Black Lagoon. Lon Chaney has a
small role as a fellow warlock. A good typical Roger Corman production, The
Haunted Palce is a must for Vincent Price fans.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Previous]  Die, Monster, Die! (1965) [Next]

Actors                                                                  [Image]

   * Boris Karloff

Director

   * Daniel Haller

Review

An adaptation of The Colour Out of Space finds a reclusive Boris Karloff
experimenting with a radioactive meteorite. The poster is more horrifying than
the movie. Badly remade in 1987 as The Curse that stars the Star Trek wonder
child, Wil Wheaton.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Previous]  The Shuttered Room (1968) [Next]

Actors

   * Gig Young
   * Oliver Reed

Director

   * David Greene

Review

An old house, located on a remote New England island, holds evil secrets behind
that huge pad-locked door in the attic. Had promise but ending is
anti-climatic. Based on The Shuttered Room. Also released as Blood Island.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Previous]  The Dunwich Horror (1970) [Next]

Actors                                                                  [Image]

   * Dean Stockwell
   * Sandra Dee

Director

   * Director: Daniel Haller

Review

Starts with great opening credits but quickly becomes a bore which no amount of
beer could restore. Story is about a young warlock who acquires (steals) the
infamous Necronomicon from the Miskatonic University Library and proceeds to
call upon some of the Great Old Ones. Dee is the unfortunate blind date for
those who live beyond the wall of sleep.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Previous]  The Music of Erich Zann (1980) [Next]

 Actors

    * Robert Ruevain as Charles Dexter Ward
    * Darryl Warren as Blandot
    * Robert Alexander as Erich Zann

 Director, Screenplay, Editor

    * John Strysik
                                            [Ward] [Zann]
 Producers

    * John Strysik
    * Robert Rothman

 Photography Michael K. Goi
 Special Effects John Smiley
 Music Andre Caporaso

Quote

     ...I often heard sounds which filled me with an idefinable dread --
     the dread of vaque wonder and brooding mystery

Review (Essential Saltes Productions, ltd., color, 17 mins)

Capturing to film the mood and the richness in detail of H.P. Lovecrafts' work
is an incredibly difficult undertaking and hasn't been done effectively to date
although there have been quite a few cinematic adaptations of the works of HPL.
In 1980, John Strysik a Lovecraft fan and filmmaker received a grant from the
Illinois Arts Council and permission from Arkham House to adapt the short story
The Music of Erich Zann. This short film is the most faithful adaptation of any
HPL story that I have seen.

The story revolves around a student of metaphysics, Charles Dexter Ward (note:
in the HPL story the narrator is nameless), who befriends Erich Zann an aging
violinist who lives on the floor above him.

Charles is fascinated and then drawn to Zann's sinister yet wonderful music
that he hears late at night drifting down from above. He, of course, discovers
more then he bargains for when he peers at what beckons beyond that strange
curtained window in Zann's room.

One note of warning, this film is not generally available to the public which
is unfortunate now that I have piqued your curiosity.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Previous]  Re-Animator (1985) [Next]

Actors                                                           [Jeffry Combs]

   * Bruce Abbott
   * Jeffery Combs
   * Barbara Crampton

Director

   * Stuart Gordon

Quote

     This need for very fresh corpses had been West's moral undoing.

Review

This is a great flick that is available on video-tape in at least three
different versions. One of these versions (which is unrated and uncut) has a
hilarious ahhh... errr... headless cunning linguist scene (Barbara Crampton
does it again!). The story revolves around Herbert West (Jeffery Combs!), a
brilliant (but deranged) Miskatonic University medical student, who seeks to
bring the dead back to life with a syringe full of day-glo green solution. This
movie was based on HPL's Herbert West--Re-Animator. Director Stuart Gordon went
for the outrageous and gross in this movie. It was followed by Bride of
Re-Animator.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Previous]  From Beyond (1986) [Next]

                                                                        [Image]
Actors                                                          [Image]

   * Jeffrey Combs
   * Barbara Crampton

Director

   * Stuart Gordon

Quote

     And IT bite his head off like a GINGER-BREAD MAN!

A must for members of the Barbara Crampton fan club!! The makers of Re-Animator
reteamed for this extremely amusing story of a scientist trying to stimulate
his, ahhh... hmmm..., pineal gland while Barbara bears her breasts in front of
Cthulhoid entities. Combs is prefect as the confused and sexually repressed lab
assistant who becomes this bald brain eating beast. Highly Recommended! Very
loosely based on HPL's From Beyond.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Previous]  The Curse (1987) [Next]

Actors

   * Claude Akins
   * Wil Wheaton

Director

   * David Keith

Quote

Review

Another adaptation of The Colour Out of Space (this time directed by David
Keith!), finds us smack in the middle of TVA country where farmer Claude is
struggling to make ends meet at the farm. Fortunately, a strange glowing
meteorite lands in his fields making all his crops grow and mature at an
incredible rate! His crops are now crispy on the outside diseased on the
inside. The meteorite is also affecting his family. A very young Wil is our
hero. And by the way, don't drink the water.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Previous]  The UnNamable (1988) [Next]

* Actors: Charles King, Alexandra Durrell
* Director: Jean-Paul Ouellette

Thirty-something actresses try to pretent they are 18 year old sex-crazed
college students. A Sority initiation requires them to spend some time in a
creepy mansion and discover a bloodthirsty she-demon. Fortunately for them,
some geeks also check out the house and stumble across the Necronomicon. There
was sequel in 1992 imaginatively called The UnNamable II.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Previous]  Bride of Re-Animator (1990) [Next]

* Actors: Bruce Abbott, Jeffrey Combs
* Director: Brian Yuzna

That day-glo green syringe is back! This is an amusing flick although not
nearly as good as the original Re-Animator. The story starts in the jungles of
Central America where we find our hero Herbert West experimenting on very fresh
bodies supplied by the local civil war. Things really get out of hand when they
return to Miskatonic only to find that the severed head has grafted bat wings
to itself and commands an army of the re-animated from a more mobile vantage
point.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Previous]  Cthulhu Mansion (1990) [Next]

* Actors: Paul Birchard, Marcia Layton
* Director: Juan Piquer Simon

Steven K. Neils wrote: Sadly, I have seen the movie Cthulhu Mansion... be
warned as the box says this movie is only "inspired by the works of H.P.
Lovecraft," although I would hardly call anything in this movie "inspired". The
only reference to HPL would have to be the name of the mansion which is seen
briefly spelled in iron letters on the front gate: "Cthulhu". The story
involves a stage magician and some young hoodlums who plan on robbing him, they
take him hostage in his own mansion, little do they know that Satan lives in
the basement. One by one they die in lame, pathetic, but supposedly horrifying
and evil ways. Eventually, the magician confronts Satan and the movie ends but
I can't remember any specifics, I think the mansion is destroyed, but who
cares? I think this is how the story went, but it was so boring I can't
remember much. In conclusion, Cthulhu Mansion isn't based on anything HPL ever
wrote, and it was one of the worst f***ing movies I have ever seen.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Previous]  The Resurrected (1991) [Next]

* Actors: John Terry, Chris Sarandon
* Director: Dan O'Bannon

     Ye have made the most damnable mistake!

Another adaptation of The Case of Charles Dexter Ward finds a young chemist
(Chris Sarandon) seeking his ancestor's secret of eternal life after inheriting
a trunk that contained his ancestor's diary. This is by far the most faithful
adaptation of this story. The cavern scenes were especially good. I really
enjoyed this film. It could have been a film that would have made HPL proud.
However it fell short. Too bad Dan didn't film it in Rhode Island.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Previous]  To Cast a Deadly Spell (HBO 1993) [Next]

* Actors: Fred Ward, Clancy Brown, Alexandra Powers and Charles Hallahan
* Director: Martin Campell

It is the late 1940's in L.A. where everyone does Magic(tm). Everyone except
one hard boiled dick (detective that is) who prefers to solve his cases the old
fashion way (like Nick Danger). Silly movie that had one good scene when a man
dies of a thousand paper cuts. Thanks goes to Daniel Riche from France for the
actor and director information.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Previous]  Necronomicon (1993) [Next]

 Actors

    * Jeffrey Combs as H.P. Lovecraft
    * Tony Anzito
    * Juan Fernandez
    * Bruce Payne                     Directors
    * Belinda Bauer
    * Maria Ford                         * Brian Yuzna
    * Richard Lynch                      * Christopher Gans
    * David Warner                       * Shusuki Kaneko
    * Bess Meyer
    * Millie Perkins                  Producers
    * Dennis Christopher
    * Gary Graham                     * Samuel Hadida
    * Curt Lowens                     * Brian Uzna
    * Signey Coleman
    * Don Calfa
    * Judith Drake
    * Obba Babatunde

Review (color, 97 minutes)

This is basically an anthology film that presents three stories and a
wrap-around segment which has H.P. Lovecraft discovering the ancient Necronicon
and deciding to transcribe three of it's stories. These stories include The
Drowned, about a man who uses the secrets of the Necronomicon to revive his
deceased wife; The Cold, anot a reporter who investigates the deaths of 40
people and discovers a secret that threatens his own existence; and Whispers,
in which a female cop discovers an underground civilization that is a breeding
ground for the old ones. The wrap-around segemnt and the Whispers story are
directed by Brian Yuzna. The Drowned is directed by Christophe Gans and The
Cold is directed by Shusuki Kaneko. The film stars Jeffrey Combs as H.P.
Lovecraft. Thanks goes to Jim Rodkey for the provided information.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Previous]  Witch Hunt (HBO 1994) [Next]

Actors

   * Eric Bogosian
   * Dennis Hopper
   * Julian Sands

Director

   * Director: Paul Schrader

Quote

Review

Sequel to To Cast a Deadly Spell. It's L.A. once again, where an ambitious
Senator is holding hearings on Magic(tm). Detective Philip Lovecraft our hero
is unique in that he is the only guy who doesn't do magic.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Previous]  Lurking Fear (1994) [Next]

Actors                                               [Full Moon Entertainment]

   * Jon Finch
   * Jeffrey Combs

Director

   * C. Courtney Joyner

Quote

     ...and I knew in one inundating cataclysm of voiceless horror what
     had become of the vanished family; the terrible and thunder-crazed
     house of Martense.

Review

A small town (in South America) is terrorized by flesh-eating ghouls living
beneath the local cemetery. The plot revolves around some bad guys trying to
find a grave where some loot was buried in. Jeffery Combs, the town's alcoholic
doctor, is the highlight of this film. The creatures look great but aren't used
very effectively. There is a nice touch near the end of the movie, however,
where Combs' character is near death and his assistant pulls out a bottle of
Re-Animator juice to save him!! Egads, not that!

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Previous]  In the Mouth of Madness (1995) [Next]

Actors                                                                 [Poster]

   * Sam Neil as John Trent
   * Julie Carmen as Linda Styles
   * Jurgen Prochnow as Sutter Cane
   * Charles Heston as Jackson Harglow
   * and Sean Ryan as The Bicycle Boy

Director

   * John Carpenter

Quote

     ...oh no. Not the Carpenters too.

Review (New Line Films, color, ~95 min)

Well hundreds of you out in webland complained that I was missing the HPL
inspired film In the Mouth of Madness. Well, I finally broke down and rented
the film. Once I heard the opening cords of a very badly done rock song came
blasting out of my TV set I knew I was in for some tough viewing (the music was
by John Carpenter by the way). My solution was to quickly run to the frig and
grab me a cold six pack of Full Sail Ale. This was beginning to look like it
was going to take two six packs to endure.

Plot? Gosh, well there is this insurance investigator played by Neill who
starts to investigate the disapperance of a very popular horror author named
Sutter Cane (like Stephen King, get it?).

Seems that a people are beginning to go funny in the head after reading Kane's
novels. They is a beginning to affect reality. Re-defining it so to speak. The
only thing horrorable about this film was that I actually sat down and watched
it. There was about 30 seconds of interesting (visual) footage in the film,
passing reference to the Old Ones (the HPL inspired part) and no nudity.

This is probably the worst film reviewed on this page (Cthulhu Mansion makes a
close second running). Avoid it at all cost unless you have lots of beer and
happen to be recovering from a frontal lobotomy!

[Image]
[Image]
[Beyond Books] Author: Andrew "Landru" Migliore
               Email: [Image] beyond@teleport.com
