NESFA Press

January 1995 Catalog
Prices and availability subject to change without notice

Go to the NESFA (The New England Science Fiction Association) homepage.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FICTION and NONFICTION

Early Harvest by Greg Bear $15.00

The Guest of Honor Book for Boskone 25 (1988) contains 2 stories ("A Martian
Ricorso" and "Webster"), 5 articles of film criticism (including "Alien",
"Dune", and "Raiders of the Lost Ark") and 4 pieces of journalism; each work
has an introduction by the author. The edition consists of 800 numbered copies,
the first 225 of which (sold out) are signed and slipcased. Dustjacket by David
Mattingly, hardbound, vi + 131 pages, 5-1/4" x 7- 1/4", ISBN 0-915368-36-6.

Viewpoint by Ben Bova $8.00

The 1977 Boskone Book. The only published collection of editorials (and
additional material) by the 1971-1978 editor of one of science fiction's most
prominent magazines, Analog. Artwork by John Schoenherr. A numbered, signed
edition of 800. 114 pages, hardbound, 5-1/4" x 7-1/4", ISBN 0-915368-14-5.

A New Settlement of Old Scores by John Brunner $8.00

This songbook is a special publication to honor John Brunner as Guest of Honor
of ConStellation (the 1983 Worldcon). The songbook contains 20 songs by Brunner
with original lyrics and some original music. Music is provided for all songs.
Each song is illustrated by a different SF or fantasy artist. Available in book
or GBC (comb) bindings, softbound, 64 pages, 8-1/2" x 11", ISBN 0-915368- 22-6
(book binding), -26-9 (GBC binding).

Tomorrow May Be Even Worse $4.00

by John Brunner and ATom

The 1978 Boskone Book, an alphabet of SF cliches. A collection of humorous
quatrains by one of SF's leading writers and poets, each with a cartoon by
British illustrator Arthur Thomson (ATom). A numbered edition of 1000 copies.
Softbound, 64 pages, 5-3/8" x 6", ISBN 0-915368-15-3.

Double Feature by Emma Bull and Will Shetterly.

The 1994 Boskone Book. Includes ten stories (including one original to this
book), two essays, a poem, and bibliographies. Double Feature is 280 pages,
hardbound with trade and boxed editions. Wraparound dust jacket by Nicholas
Jainschigg. ISBN 0-915368-99-4 (trade, $17.95); 0-915368-54-4 (boxed,
$30.00).Emma and Will also run a press called Steeldragon Press.

Between Two Worlds by Terry Carr $15.00

Messages Found in an Oxygen Bottle by Bob Shaw

Published to honor the ConFederation (1986 Worldcon) Fan GoH and Toastmaster,
this book is in the "Ace Double" format with the authors' contributions bound
opposite each other. The Carr section contains an introduction and 6 stories
and fannish articles, while the Shaw contribution includes 9 fannish articles.
The edition consists of 225 numbered, signed, and slipcased copies (sold out),
and 775 trade copies. Two covers by Bob Eggleton, hardbound, x + 171 pages,
5-1/4" x 7- 1/4", ISBN 0-915368-33-1.

Up to the Sky in Ships by A. Bertram Chandler $13.00 In and Out of Quandry by
Lee Hoffman

A special publication to honor Chicon IV's (the 1981 Worldcon) pro and fan
Guests of Honor, this hardbound book is in the "Ace Double" format with the
authors' contributions bound opposite each other. The book features two
full-color cover paintings by Artist GoH Kelly Freas. The Chandler section
contains a sampling of his work through the years, including the hard-to-find
first Grimes story and a new story from his alternate history of Australia.
Hoffman's wide range of fannish and professional writing is represented by 11
works, including the classic "The Truth About Steam." x + 158 pages, 5-1/4" x
7-1/4", ISBN 0-915368-16-1.

Glass and Amber by C.J. Cherryh $15.00

The Guest of Honor Book for Boskone 24 (1987) contains 6 stories and 6
articles, including one never before published. The edition consists of 1000
numbered copies, of which the first 225 (sold out) were signed and boxed.
Dustjacket by Barclay Shaw, hardbound, vi + 212 pages, 5-1/4" x 7-1/4", ISBN
0-915368-33-X.

Intuit by Hal Clement $15.00

The Guest of Honor Book for the 1987 NASFiC in Phoenix. The edition consists of
225 (sold out) numbered, signed, and slipcased copies, and 775 trade copies.
Dustjacket and interior illustrations by Bob Eggleton, hardbound, xx + 164
pages, 5-1/4" x 7-1/4", ISBN 0-915368-35-8.

Sung in Blood by Glen Cook $15.00

The Guest of Honor Book for Boskone 27 (1990) is a novel full of intrigue and
danger. Protector Jehke has kept Shases-serre peaceful for hundreds of years,
but is found brutally murdered. His son Rider and Rider's companions try to
discover the murderer as they battle against the agents of the mysterious Kralj
Odehnal. The edition consists of 800 numbered copies, the first 210 (sold out)
of which are signed and slipcased. Dustjacket by David Cherry, hardbound, 161
pages,5-1/4" x 7- 1/4", ISBN 0-915368-44-7.

Dickson! by Gordon R. Dickson $13.00

This book, which contains five stories and an essay on the Childe cycle, was
published in 1984 by the NESFA Press for L.A.con II as their Guest of Honor
Book. 150 (sold out) boxed, signed, and numbered copies and 1350 trade copies
were printed. Full color dustjacket by Frank Kelly Freas, hardbound, xii + 193
pages, 5-1/4" x 7-1/4", ISBN 0-915368-27-7.

Vietnam and Other Alien Worlds by Joe Haldeman $17.00 (boxed edition $30.00)

The 1993 Boskone Book collects stories and essays by Guest of Honor Joe
Haldeman. It includes four of his Confederacion stories, five essays (how he
tried to get on the Space Shuttle, his experience in Viet-nam, and other
issues) and several story poems. The book has a color dustjacket by Tom Kidd.
It is available in boxed and trade hardcover editions. The edition consists of
1000 numbered copies of which the 8 are lettered and boxed and 175 are numbered
boxed, hardcover, xi + 243 pages, 5-1/2" x 8-1/2".
The trade edition is $17.00 (ISBN 0-915368-52-8) and the boxed edition is
$30.00 (ISBN 0-915368- 98-6).

Ingathering: the Complete People Stories by Zenna Henderson

Contains all seventeen stories of the People, including four which hava never
been collected and one, "Michal Without," which has never before been printed.
Dust jacket by Elizabeth Finney. ISBN 0-915368-58-7, 5 1/2” x 8 1/2”, xiv+572
pages, hardbound. $24.95

Everard's Ride by Diana Wynne Jones

The 1995 Boskone Book. Introduction by Patricia Wrede, Contains two short
novels (Everard’s Ride and The True State of Affairs and the stories "No One,"
"The Plague of Peacocks," "The Master," "nad and Dan and Quaffy," and "Dragon
Reserve, Home Eight," as well as the essay "The Shape of Narrative in The Lord
of the Rings." The book is 306 pages, hardbound. There are 815 numbered copies
of the trade edition; 185 signed and numbered or lettered copies of the boxed
edition. Dust jacket by Ruth Sanderson. ISBN 0-915368-63-3 (trade);
0-915368-76-5 (boxed). Trade edition $19.95 Boxed $30.00

Late Knight Edition by Damon Knight $13.00

Published in February, 1985 to honor Damon Knight as Boskone 22 Guest of Honor,
this book contains six stories, including one original, two essays, and an
introduction by co-Guest of Honor Kate Wilhelm. The edition is limited to 800
numbered copies of which the first 200 (sold out) were signed and boxed.
Dustjacket by Carl Lundgren, hardbound, vii + 150 pages, 5-1/4" x 7- 1/4", ISBN
0-915368-28-5.

Better Than One $6.00

by Damon Knight and Kate Wilhelm

A collection of two short stories ("Semper Fi" and "Baby, You Were Great"),
seven poems, and autobiographical introductions by the Guests of Honor at
Noreascon II (the 1980 Worldcon). xiv + 82 pages, sewn case binding, low-acid
paper, 5-1/4" x 7-1/4", ISBN 0-9603146-0-1.

Unsilent Night by Tanith Lee $10.00

The 1981 Boskone Book. Includes two stories ("Sirriamnis" and "Cyrion in Wax")
and ten poems. An edition of 1000 numbered copies, hardbound, xii + 84 pages,
5-1/4" x 7-1/4", ISBN 0- 915368-18-8.

A Bookman's Fantasy by Fred Lerner

Twenty-four essays by fan writer and librarian Fred Lerner. iv + 97 pages,
5-1/2"x8-1/2", trade paperback. Cover art by Merle Insinga. ISBN 0-915368-65-X.
$11.95

The Passage of the Light: The Recursive Science Fiction of Barry N. Malzberg
edited by Mike Resnick and Anthony R. Lewis

Contains all the Barry Malzberg stories about science fiction including
Herovit's World, "A Galaxy Called Rome," "Prose Bowl" (with Bill Pronzini), and
ten more. Introduction by Mike Resnick, Afterword by Tony Lewis. Trade
paperback 5 1/2" x 8 1/2", x + 282 pages; printed on acid-free paper for long
life. Cover illustration by Merle Insinga. ISBN: 0-915368-59-5. Price:$14.00.

Stalking the Wild Resnick by Mike Resnick $15.00 (boxed $30.00)

The Guest of Honor Book for Boskone 28 (1991) contains two articles and six
short stories, two of which were nominated for the Hugo in 1991. The edition
consists of 225 numbered, signed, and slipcased copies, and 875 copies of the
trade edition. Color dustjacket illustration by Ed Emshwiller, hardbound, viii
+ 216 pages, 5-1/4" x 7-1/4", ISBN 0-915368-96-X (boxed), 45-5 (trade). Copies
of both the boxed and trade editions are still available.

Compounded Interests by Mack Reynolds $13.00

The 1983 Boskone Book (Boskone 20). Includes eleven stories from all of
Reynolds' series, including a new Rex Bader story written for this book. The
dustjacket illustration is by Wendy Pini. Edition limited to 1000 numbered
copies of which the first 200 (sold out) were boxed and signed, hardbound,
5-1/4" x 7-1/4", ISBN 0-915368-20-X.

Andre Norton: A Primary and Secondary Bibliography by Roger Schlobin and Irene
Harrison $12.50

Andre Norton is one of fantasy's master storytellers and over the years she has
writen a vast number of works. This bibliograophy, a major update to Roger
Schlobin's 1980 bibliography, lists all works by or about Andre Norton through
November 1994. xxvi + 92 pages, 5-1/2"x8-1/2", trade paperback. ISBN
0-915368-64-1. Price: $11.95

The Best of James H. Schmitz $18.95
edited by Mark L. Olson

The first book in the new "NESFA's Choice" series brings nine classic stories
back into print, including "Grandpa", "Balanced Ecology", and "The Second Night
of Summer". Introduction by Janet Kagan. Complete Schmitz bibliography. Classic
color dustjacket by Kelly Freas, interior illustrations by Merle Insinga. Since
our purpose is to make good, ot-of-print works permanently available, this book
will be reprinted as necessary. The first printing consists of 1000 copies,
hardcover, xi + 243 pages, 5-1/2" x 8-1/2", ISBN 0- 915368-46-3.

Norstrilia by Cordwainer Smith.

Contains the corrected text of Smith's only SF novel. This volume also includes
an appendix containing material removed when the magazine/original book
versions were recombined to form Norstrilia. $20.95. For more information,
click here.

The Rediscovery of Man
The Complete Short Science Fiction of Cordwainer Smith $24.95 Edited by James
A.Mann

The Rediscovery of Man includes 33 stories, his entire SF output except for the
one novel Norstrilia. The stories include classics of the field such as "The
Dead Lady of Clown Town", "The Game of Rat and Dragon", "Scanners Live in
Vain", and "A Planet Named Shayol". Appearing for the first time in print in
English are "Himself in Anachron" and the completely rewritten adult version of
his high school story "War No. 81-Q". Introduction by John J. Pierce. ISBN
0-915368-68-56-0, 5 1/2" x 8 1/2", xvi+671 pages, hardbound, acid-free paper
for long life, cover art by Jack Gaughan, $24.95.

Up There and Other Strange Directions by Donald A. Wollheim $15.00 (boxed
$30.00)

The Guest of Honor Book for Nolacon (1988 Worldcon) contains sixteen stories,
including "The Planet Called Aquella", and an introduction by the author. The
edition consists of 1000 numbered copies, of which the first 250 were signed
and boxed. Dustjacket by Ann Layman Chancellor, hardbound, 148 pages, 5-1/4" x
7-1/4", ISBN 0- 915368-39-0 (trade), -92-7 (boxed).

The Men From Ariel by Donald A. Wollheim $13.00

The 1982 Boskone Book includes ten stories, five of which were first published
here, covering the gamut from SF to horror to a western and a Lovecraft
pastiche. The dustjacket features a color illustration by Michael Whelan. A
limited edition of 1200 numbered copies were printed, the first 200 (sold out)
being boxed and signed. 116 pages, hardbound, 5-1/4" x 7-1/4", ISBN
0-915368-19-6.

Storyteller by Jane Yolen $15.00

The Guest of Honor Book for Boskone 29 (1992) contains twenty-six pieces
including stories, verse, and essays. The edition consists of 200 numbered,
signed, and slipcased copies, and 792 copies of the trade edition. Introduction
by Patricia McKillip, interior illustrations by Merle Insinga, color dustjacket
illustration by Jody Lee, hardbound. Both boxed and trade copies are still
available. ISBN 0-915368-49-8 (trade) and 0-915368-97-8 (boxed)

REFERENCE

Annotated Bibliography of Recursive Science Fiction by Anthony R. Lewis $6.00

Listing of science fiction about science fiction and the publication history of
each work, by author, with a cross reference by title and a listing by date of
first appearance. Introduction by Barry N. Malzberg. Softbound, iv + 56 pages,
8-1/2" x 11",

ISBN 0-915368-47-1.

Making Book by Teresa Nielsen Hayden.

This trade paperback of Teresa's fanwriting (for which she has been nominated
for the Hugo) is our second Boskone Book for 1994. Edited by Patrick Nielsen
Hayden. Contents: Fifteen essays, including "God and I", "Major Arcana", "Bei
mir dist du Schoenherr", "High Twee", "On Copyediting", and "Review of American
Psycho". 160 pp. Cover art by Teresa Nielsen Hayden. Trade paperback, $9.95.
ISBN 0-915368-55-2.

Concordance to Cordwainer Smith by Anthony R. Lewis $9.00

Contains over 1000 entries indexing the people, places and things of Cordwainer
Smith's universe of the Lords of the Instrumentality with exegetical material
on nomenclature. Softbound, iv + 90 pages, 8-1/2" x 11", ISBN 0-915368-24-2.

NESFA Index to Short Science Fiction

All NESFA indexes are 8-1/2" x 11", softbound. (The indexes for the years
1971-1975 are photocopied reprints of somewhat lower quality than the original
editions.)

Year Pages ISBN Price

1989 -48-x $12.00

1988 viii + 136 -43-9 $12.00

1987 vi + 142 -41-2 $12.00

1986 vi + 82 -32-3 $8.00

1983 vi + 68 -23-4 $5.00

1982 vi + 64 -21-8 $5.00

1981 vi + 60 -10-2 $5.00

1979-80 viii + 90 -09-9 $7.00

1977-78 vi + 74 -17-X $7.00

1976 iii + 38 -05-6 $5.00

1975 iv + 36 -04-8 $5.00

1974 ii + 44 -03-X $5.00

1973 ii + 30 -02-1 $5.00

1971-72 iv + 42 -06-4 $5.00

1966-70 xiv + 82 -08-0 $10.00

all 15 indexes (special price!) -68-4 $64.80

Index to Perry Rhodan

Mimeo, 12 pages each, 8-1/2" x 11".

Vol. 1: Index to US editions, #1-25 -11-0 $1.00

Vol. 2: Index to US editions, #26-50 -12-9 $1.00

NOREASCON and SMOFCON

Noreascon I Proceedings edited by Leslie Turek $6.00

Contains the text of all main program items, including the Hugo Awards banquet,
for Noreascon I (the 1971 Worldcon). With eight appendices and more than sixty
photographs of the convention. Hardbound, 192 pages, 8-1/2" x 11", ISBN 0-
915368-00-5.

Noreascon I Banquet LP $6.00

A two-record album with all the speeches, jokes, and Hugo presentations of the
awards banquet. Toastmaster: Robert Silverberg. Featured speakers:
Clifford D. Simak, Harry Warner Jr., Isaac Asimov, Gordon R. Dickson, Lester
del Rey, Forrest J Ackerman.

Noreascon I Program Book $2.00

Noreascon II Program Book $2.00

Noreascon II Memory Book $2.00

Contains reminiscences and hundreds of photos of Noreascon II, including eight
color pages of the masquerade. 8 1/2_ x 11_

Costumes, Creatures, and Characters by Ann Layman Chancellor $2.00

This catalog contains photographs and descriptions of the sixteen prizewinning
costumes that made up the Noreascon II special costume exhibit. Softbound, ii +
16 pages, 5-1/2" x 8-1/2", ISBN 0- 9603146-2-8.

Noreascon 3 Souvenir Book edited by Greg Thokar $3.00

This is the Souvenir Book (Program Book) for Noreascon Three, the 1989 World
Science Fiction
Convention. Besides the usual things, it contains a history of fifty years of
Worldcons with an article on each written by someone who attended it. Full
color cover by Bob Eggleton. 8 1/2_ x 11" ISBN 0- 9603146-6-0

Noreascon 3 Stranger Club Fanzine $3.00

The Stranger Club, Boston's first SF club was the Fan GoH of Noreascon Three.
To honor them, Tony Lewis edited Fanfare 11, a 1989 issue of their fanzine.
Full color cover by Harry Stubbs. 8 1/2_ x 11"

Noreascon 3 "3" Pin $3.50

A green and white cloisonne pin of the Shooting Star "3" logo.

Noreascon 3 "Cat" Pin $3.50

A green cloisonne pin of Noreascon 3's Cheshire Cat logo.

Noreascon 3 Mug $6.00

A large, clear glass mug for generous servings of bheer or other potables with
a green and gold Noreascon 3 design.

Noreascon 3 Memory Book $3.00

Photos, facts and stories about Noreascon Three. Free to members of Noreascon.
ISBN 0-9603146-7- 9

Smofcon 0 Proceedings by Anthony R. Lewis $1.00

Collected notes from Smofcon 0 (The Science Fiction Convention Managers
Conference), held in New York City in 1972, emphasizing interaction between
cons and hotels. iv + 10 pages.

Smofcon 1 Proceedings compiled by Theresa Renner $8.00

Proceedings of Smofcon 1 (ConCon 1), held in Washington, DC, in 1984. 156
pages.

Smofcon 3 Proceedings edited by Aron K. Insinga $5.00

Complete record of the brainstorming sessions held at Smofcon 3, held in
Lowell, MA, in 1986, focusing on how to run a Worldcon. Introduction by Mark L.
Olson. ii + 68 pages, 8-12" x 11", ISBN 0-9603146-5-2.

If I Ran the Zoo Con by Leslie Turek $12.00

The Smofcon 3 Game. Presented by MCFI at the 1986 Convention Runners'
Convention (Smofcon), this publication consists of 43 scenarios of what could
go wrong (and right) in bidding for, planning, and running a Worldcon.
Softbound, iv + 109 pages plus game cards, 8-1/2" x 11", ISBN 0-915368-37- 4.
We have added a GBC-bound edition, ISBN 0- 915368-51-X, for $15.00.

FANNISH ITEMS

Warhoon 28 by Richard Bergeron $30.00

Warhoon 28 is a 600-page, hard-bound,
mimeographed fanzine collecting the writings of legendary fan writer, Walt
Willis. Warhoon 28 was published in 1978 by Richard Bergeron and is a
masterpiece of the fanzine art. (It's not a NESFA Press publication, but we're
helping it get a much deserved, wider distribution.) $30 (no ISBN).

Let's Hear It for the Deaf Man by Dave Langford $7.00

A 1992 Hugo Nominee for Best Non-Fiction!, this is a collection of the writings
of 1992 Boskone Special Guest Dave Langford, many-time Hugo winner, SF writer,
and fantastically funny fanabout -town. Includes excerpts and articles from
Ansible, Sglodin and elsewhere. Edited by Ben Yalow, Mimeo, 8-1/2" x 11", three
staples. ISBN 0- 915368-50-1.

Pastiche by Kate Wilhelm $5.00

Pastiche is a word game invented by 1985 Boskone Guest of Honor Kate Wilhelm in
which the players attempt to construct sentences from randomly selected fantasy
words and punctuation. Rules for three variations are included. Cover by Carl
Lundgren.

The NESFA Hymnal edited by Joe Ross $18.00

Provides text and guitar chords for over 150 filksongs, including such classics
as "Young Man Mulligan", "Home on Lagrange", "Kirk Went ACourtin", and
"Bouncing Potatoes". Softbound, vi + 211 pages, 8-1/2" x 11", ISBN
0-915368-69-2.

The NESFA Hymnal, Volume 2 edited by Jane Wagner $8.00

The 1987 edition of the NESFA Hymnal, provides text and guitar chords for over
100 filksongs, many of which are previous winners of the annual Boskone
Filksong Contest. There is no overlap between volumes 1 and 2; they contain
disjoint sets of songs. Softbound, 123 pages, 8-1/2" x 11", ISBN 0-915368-70-6.

"Eripmav" T-Shirts $8.00

Damon Knight's short-short story "Eripmav" is printed front and back on a tan
100% cotton T-shirt. Be sure to specify size (S, M, L).

The Boskone Program Books are available for most years since 1984 (Boskone
XXI). 8-12" x 11". $1 each.

"Book Fan" Book Bag $12.00

Carry your books in this stylish blue book bag with "Book Fan" artwork by Merle
Insinga from the Noreascon III Pocket Program.

"Book Fan of NESFA" T-shirt $8.00

A navy blue T-shirt with Merle Insinga's "Book Fan" artwork with the legend
"Book Fan of NESFA".

Propeller Beanie $7.00

Part of the fannish uniform since the 1939 Worldcon. If you didn't get yours
when you were a neo-fan, it's not too late!

NESFA Subscribing Membership $16.00

A subscribing membership entitles you to receive NESFA's semi-monthly
newsletter, "Instant Message", and any issues of our genzine, "Proper
Boskonian", which appear during the year.

NESFA T-Shirt $12.00

For NESFA members only. A 100% cotton, light blue T-shirt with the NESFA shield
in full color on the front and "New England Science Fiction Association, Inc."
printed on the back. Available in both men's and women's sizes S, M, L, and XL,
as well as men's size XXL. $5.00 of the price is a donation to NESFA.

NESFA Decal $2.00

For NESFA members only. A full-color, 4" high, self-adhesive decal displaying
the NESFA shield.

NESFA Pin $3.50

For NESFA members only. A full-color cloisonne pin of the NESFA shield.

Symes Portfolio $4.00

Portfolio of 4 black-and-white prints by Mike Symes. Rolled, in a sturdy
mailing tube. Get 'em while they last!

The Phoenix and the Mirror by Avram Davidson $5.00

The Doubleday first edition-distributed by NESFA. A novel of the fantastic, set
in an ancient Rome that never was, in which Vergil Magus strives with the
immortal Phoenix for his most precious possession. 209 pages, hardbound, 5-3/4"
x 8-1/2".

Click here to see a Davidson bibligraphy.

NESFA accepts payment by mail by check, Mastercard or Visa. Please add $2
postage ($4 for multiple books) for each order ($4/$8 out of US). MA residents
please add 5% sales tax. Write for our complete catalog (also available by
email)!

Write to:
NESFA
PO Box 809
Framingham, MA 01701-0203
