<ADDRESS><A HREF="mailto:cyberoid@u.washington.edu">Reply to: Robert Jacobson
</A><BR><LINK HREF="mailto:cyberoid@u.washington.edu" REV="made">
</ADDRESS><TITLE>REV-ENTERTAIN: VR.5, on the Fox Network:
 AWE-SOME!  Or noisome?...</TITLE><H1> REV-ENTERTAIN: VR.5, on the Fox Network:
 AWE-SOME!  Or noisome?...</H1><ADDRESS>13 Mar 1995 20:09:38 GMT<BR>None
given<BR></ADDRESS><DLC><DT>Newsgroups:<DD><A HREF="news:sci.virtual-worlds">
sci.virtual-worlds</A><BR><DT><A HREF="newspost:sci.virtual-worlds">Reply to
newsgroup(s)</A></DLC>


<PRE>VR.5 is AWE-SOME!  Or noisome.  Take your pick....
 
This show has it all.  It's either the funniest parody of virtual
reality ever to flicker on the small screen, or a failed profundity
that's funny anyway.  From the team of Thania and Kattleman, writer
and director respectively, VR.5, like other Fox Network offerings, is
aimed squarely at the reptile brains of the mythical X- generation.
If it misses, it's not for lack of trying.  Occasionally, it hits.
 
In VR.5, virtual reality has three principal uses: wreaking havoc, sex
(ranging from the romantic to the pathological), and a mysterious
KGB-like social monitoring whose ubiquity is only hinted at as the
first episode draws to a close.  (Never, however, do we find out what
the ".5" is for, so don't ask.)  The characters are equally
distinctive, and limited: the ironic-funny sidekick roommate (of
opposite gender from the heroine); the angry-under-the-collar-middle-
class-white-guy (played so well by WIRED archetype Penn Jillette that
you wonder if he's acting); the sardonic VR 40-year-old "oldtimer" and
_intellectual_ hunk, Dr. Frank Morgan; and at the virtual center of it
all, techno-ingenue Sally Bloom.
 
Bloom is a ravishing fiber-optic repairperson lifer at TelCal, the
local telephone monopoly.  Accidentally switching the external
phone-jack modems of her garage VR setup, Bloom is swept into a
Virtual Reality.  There are of course the obligatory flashing goggles
and Lycra gloves, but we know it is _Real_ Virtual Reality when it
begins with a wormhole recycled from DEEP SPACE 9 and ends inevitably
in harm or destruction, emotional and sometimes physical.  While the
mayhem is occurring -- for example, when Sally tries to visit her
ailing Mom and instead revisits her mother's self-annihilation -- the
colors are shifted, in video no less, so that no longer are we in
filmland.  We are in Real Virtual Reality, where colors are shifted,
sounds are exaggerated, and individuals' private thoughts become the
property of the Promethean Ms. Bloom.  At one point, when Penn in his
Porsche is very nearly close-hauled by a driverless steamroller, the
show shouts to its viewers: "Now we are -- in VR!  Now we are -- in
VR!"  This is the real cheerleader's slogan for this show, much more
so than the vaguely ontological, "VR is Real," that a female voice
whispers during station breaks a la L.A.  LAW.
 
Besides chaos, a few other things happen in Real Virtual Reality.  For
example, blue eyes turn green.  That's odd.  Also, in Real Virtual
Reality Sally exudes a potent sexuality, the flavor of which is
expressed in extreme clothes and hairdoes, reflecting her mood at the
moment.  Back in Dull Real Reality, she's a plaid shirt, vest, and
jeans girl-next-door.  (Her Dull clothes, however, are selected by her
faceless computer chum Ultra, the agent who inhabits her wrap-around-
monitor, nine-gazillion RAM, 2000-terahertz, infinite-gigabyte-memory
home PC.)  Then too, in VR, there's always an "Off" switch, which
Sally, otherwise a bright gal, somehow manages to forget when she
dates a murderous coworker.  Sally had premonitions of Cooper's
weirdness on her last VR escape, but somehow in the grip of crisis she
ignores the first rule of all VR cowgirls: "In Dull Real Reality,
there is no 'Off' switch!"
 
The sarcastic Dr. Morgan has warned Sally time and again to "put it
away and never use it again."  Dr. M once ignored Michael Heim's
ethical dictates -- which is strange, seeing as how Dr. M is a
Professor of Virtual Philosophy -- and put a flyer in a coma by
virtually crashing the poor dope to virtual earth from 40,000 virtual
feet.  Now Frank can't sleep at night.  That's fortunate, because he's
on-hand to save Sally when she almost buys it in Dull Real Reality,
around midnight.  (Many of us share Dr. M's insomnia, by the way; but
the mind destruction we fear is that of the non-initiates when they
see this show, and our own when we try to explain this show to
prospective customers and clients.)  Dr. M, it turns out, is sinister,
has day-old whiskers, and wears collarless shirts for a reason: Dr M
secretly represents The Committee, the biggest snoops around, who have
been hacking into Sally's VR programs.  As the show ends, we wonder:
Does Frank serve the Committee from a sense of duty, or because he
wants tenure?
 
Don't worry.  You don't have to get the plot to enjoy the show.
 
VR.5 is much richer in irony and humor than melodramatic predecessors
like LAWNMOWER MAN, which never connected ideas with images.  VR.5
speaks with a sharp tongue.  Sally, exploding with excitement at her
first VR experience, goes to the local skunkworks, where she asks a
research engineer to explain what happened and why she is having these
hyperkinetic "dreams."  Looking for an answer, Sally and the engineer
don Liquid Image headsets (doubtlessly selected, not for their dura-
bility and economy, but rather because they look a little funny after
Sally's sleek Real Virtual Reality sportsglasses).  In the labora-
tory's Almost Real Virtual Reality, nicely rendered but clearly
artificial human figures plod across a nearly empty checkerboard
landscape.  They barely can manage a decent game of kickball, let
alone steer steamrollers onto expensive sports cars.  "I don't
know..." begins the disappointed Sally.  "It's okay," says the beaming
engineer, "some people just can't handle the cutting-edge of experi-
ence."  When she complains that he just doesn't get it, the nerd
shrugs his thin shoulders, "How should I know?  I'm only an engineer!"
 
I yowled and on the spot awarded Thania one free bonus ending on her
interactive TV, if and when it arrives.
 
Somewhere along the way between the virtual sex/assault and the empty
conclusion, however, I found myself asking, "When is this going to
end?"  I mean, here it was almost an hour past midnight in Dull Real
Reality and I was going to have to write this review before I slept,
with events were still fresh in my mind.  Already details from the
beginning of the show were going a little stale.
 
So here it is.  Bob's review of VR.5.  Now it's time to do your own.
 
Watch this show and see for yourself what clever TV writers can do
with material that otherwise might be consigned to the pages of
PRESENCE, hidden from the masses.  Maybe we can learn something about
how popular taste and opinion are shaped.  VR.5 is not about to be
hidden, unless it gets buried in the myriad commercials that
continually rain down on its bite-size plot fragments.  Typically,
these ads, with their inspired surRealism, were outdoing the Real TV
Show.  (Milk, MCI 800-COLLECT, and Volvo, in that order, definitely
take the evening's Fruitcake Awards.)  I think VR.5, with more
intriguing stories, will crawl above the rockfall.
 
It can't do it on the strength of its visuals.  VR.5's special
effects, by MC Digital, are nice as far as they go -- which isn't far.
It's weird that these guys are using conventional computer graphics to
replicate Real Virtual Reality, when they could do it easier with
today's Almost Real Virtual Reality.  Maybe it has something to do
with Hollywood's love of tradition.  Or not taking risks.  Whatever.
The acting isn't half-bad, and I remember irresistibly empathizing
with Sally in her struggle to maintain boundaries between Real Virtual
Reality and Dull Real Reality.  Lord knows, with the Republicans in
Congress, it can be hard.  Then again, maybe I gravitated to young
Sally because she's the spitting image of my grad-school girlfriend as
I still see her in my mind's eye, two decades later.  Come to think of
it, Dull Real Reality ain't as bad as it's cracked up to be!
 
For one reason or another, VR.5 will captivate you.  Just be sure 
_you_ know where the "Off" switch is...and isn't.
 
Bob Jacobson

</PRE>