-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following article was written by:

Mike Holder
(303) 538-3929
AT&T Bell Laboratories
Denver, CO USA

Please send any comments regarding this article to holder@dr.att.com .

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Indian Ruins of the Southwest

This is a catalog of information about ancient Indian ruins in the Southwest
States (Colorado, Utah, Arizona, New Mexico). The listings include some small
amount of description of the ruins themselves, as well as information on how to
visit them (including how to get more information).

There were actually several different (though related) groups of ancient
Indians that left pueblo and cliff dwelling ruins in the Four Corners area on
into southern Arizona and New Mexico. The most well known of these are the
Anasazi, who lived in the Four Corners area for about 2000 years. However, the
Mogollon, Hohokam, Sinagua, and Salado occupied nearby regions of Arizona
during much of the same time. And after they all disappeared, the early Pueblo
peoples (thought to be ancestors of the Anasazi and Hohokam) also built pueblos
and cliff dwellings whose ruins are visable today.

The word "Anasazi" is a Navajo word meaning "ancient ones" and is used to
describe the ancestors of the current Pueblo peoples of the Four Corners
Region. These Anasazi came into the region somewhere around 700 B.C. Their
earliest lodgings were covered pits. By their halcyon days of between A.D. 1000
through 1300, there were constructing sophisticated pueblo and cliff dwellings
throughout the arrid canyon lands of the region. Around 1300, they abandoned
their dwellings and moved away. The reasons are still unknown, although there
is speculation that prolonged drought played a major role. They left thousands
of ruins across the Four Corners area, and many of these have been excavated by
scientists and partially restored.

Most Anasazi ruins take the form of cliff dwellings (stone-constructed
buildings built in cavernous openings along the cliff faces of the many
canyons) or Pueblos (multi-room, sometimes multi-story, free-standing
dwellings). Almost all Anasazi ruins also include kivas, which are circular
semi-underground ceremonial rooms. Some sites also feature Great Kivas (very
large, public ceremonial rooms) and towers.

The Mogollon (pronounced mug'-ee-yone) (and a branch known as the Mimbres)
lived in the upper drainage of the Little Colorado River in northern Arizona on
down through southern Arizona from 500 A.D. through about 1450 A.D. The Hohokam
lived in the Phoenix basin at about the same time. The Sinagua lived in the San
Francisco Peaks area (near Flagstaff) on into the Verde River valley. The
Salado lived in the Tonto Basin and Globe-Miami areas of Arizona. After the
Anasazi and Hohokam moved out of the Four Corners area (around 1300), the early
Pueblo peoples started inhabiting the Rio Grande River valley.

Although there are many similarities in the several cultures, there were many
differences including architectural styles, artistic designs used in pottery,
basketry and pictographs/petroglyphs, farming techniques, etc. It is clear from
many artifacts found that there was a trading network between these peoples and
the early peoples of the Pacific coast and with Meso-Americans.

(I've rated the various sites with star ratings, with * (1 star) meaning "Only
for really interested parties" and ***** (5 stars) meaning "Must see for
everyone". These ratings are based on personal experience and/or readings (and
of course, your interests/ratings may vary depending on several factors). I've
visited several of these, but not all. Ones that I have no personal experience
with are marked [NPE]. Information on various sites comes from brochures, AAA
TourBooks, the InterPARK Messenger (annual visitor's guide to the National
Parks, Monuments, and Historic areas of the region), the Ferguson & Rohn book
mentioned below, and several other miscellaneous sources.)

ARIZONA

BESH BE GOWAH ARCHEOLOGICAL PARK {Salado} (near Globe, AZ) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: pueblo of around 250 ground floor rooms occupied from around
1225 AD to 1450 AD. Access: Entrance Fee? The Park is located along Jess Hayes
Road, approximately 1.5 miles southwest of Globe. Follow South Broad Street to
Ice House Canyon Road and continue to the Besh Ba Gowah turnoff. Information:
Check with tourist information in Globe.

Canyon de Chelly National Monument {Anasazi} (near Chinle, AZ) [***] Principal
Ruins: White House, Antelope House, Standing Cow, Mummy Cave Access: No
entrance fee. White House trail is 2.5 miles (rt). All other excursions into
the canyons must be accompanied by an authorized Navajo guide (hikes, 4-wheel
vehicle, or horseback tours). Tours (complete with 4/6-wheel vehicles and
Navajo guide) are also available through Thunderbird Lodge (602-674-5841).
Information: Visitor's Center open 8am-5pm (Oct.-Apr.), 8am-6pm (May-Sept.).
Contact Superintendent, Canyon de Chelly N.M., P.O. Box 588, Chinle, AZ 86503.
(602) 674-5500.

CASA GRANDE RUINS NATIONAL MONUMENT {Hohokam} (Coolidge, AZ) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: the "big house", other smaller ruins, a ball court. Access:
Entrance fee $4/vehicle or $2/person. Located on AZ Hwy 87, 1 mi. north of
Coolidge. Information: Visitor's Center and Museum. Contact Casa Grande Ruins
National Monument, 1100 Ruins Drive, Coolidge, AZ 85228. Phone 602-723-3172.

CASA MALPAIS {Mogollon} (near Springerville, AZ) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: 50-room pueblo, a great kiva, several small residential
compounds, a large wall, prehistoric trails, rock art panels, subterranean
ceremonial chambers. Access: Entrance fee $3. Located on US Hwy 60, 1 mi. w of
Springerville; Self-guiding trails or guided tours (by appointment)
Information: Visitor's Center at 318 West Main Street in Springerville
(602-333-5375)

ELDEN RUINS {Sinagua} (near Flagstaff, AZ) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: pueblo (60-70 rooms) occupied 1100 AD to 1250 AD. Access: No
Entrance fee? Located on US Hwy 89, 1.5 miles north of its interchange on I-40
near Flagstaff.

GRAND CANYON NATIONAL PARK {Anasazi} [*]

Principal Ruins: Tusayan ruin (small pueblo and museum on South Rim); Walhalla
ruin (North Rim); other GCNP sites in the Canyon. Access: $10/vehicle entrance
into the Park. Tusayan ruin is 22 mi. e of Grand Canyon Village. Information:
Superintendent, Grand Canyon National Park, P.O. Box 129, Grand Canyon, AZ
86023. Phone (602) 638-7701.

HARDY SITE {Hohokam} (Tuscon, AZ) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: ruins of small village occupied from 300 AD to 1250 AD.
Access: located at Fort Lowell Park at 2900 North Craycroft Road in northeast
Tuscon.

HOMOLOVI RUINS STATE PARK {Anasazi} (Winslow, AZ) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: around 300 small ruins in 4 groups? Also petroglyphs. Access:
$3/vehicle. Off SR 87, north of Winslow. Information: Visitor's center/museum -
(602) 289-4106

MONTEZUMA CASTLE NATIONAL MONUMENT {Sinagua} [**]

Principal Ruins: Montezuma Castle (20-room, 5-story cliff dwelling) and a few
others. Also Montezuma Well (11mi. ne) - a large limestone sinkhole rimmed by
pueblos and cliff dwellings. Access: $2/vehicle for Montezuma Castle; No fee
for Well. Open 8am-7pm (June-Aug.), 8am-5pm (Sept.-May) Information: Visitor's
Center. Phone (602) 567-3322.

KINISHBA RUINS {Anasazi} (Whiteriver, AZ) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: partially restored village inhabited approx. 1050-1350 Access:
7 miles west of Whiteriver via dirt road

PAINTED ROCKS PARK {Hohokam} (40 mi. w of Gila Bend, AZ) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: over 750 petroglyph images; no ruins Access: Located 30 mi. w
of Gila Bend via I-8 to Painted Rocks exit, then 15 miles further.

NAVAJO NATIONAL MONUMENT {Anasazi} [***]

Principal Ruins: Betatakin Area, Keet Seel Area (best preserved cliff dwellings
in Arizona) Access: No fee. Headquarters 9 miles off US Hwy 160 on SR 564
(within Navajo Reservation). Betatakin ruin is 2.5 mile hike (strenuous, ranger
led 10am daily?) from Hdqtrs or can be viewed from Betatakin Point. Keet Seel
area is 8 mile hike (or via horseback) from Hdqtrs (schedules vary;
reservations required). Information: Visitor's Center open 8am-6pm (May-Sept.),
8-4:30 other times. Contact Superintendent, Navajo National Monument, HC-71,
Box 3, Tonalea, AZ 86044-9704. Phone (602) 672-2366/7.

PETRIFIED FOREST NATIONAL PARK {Anasazi} [*]

Principal Ruins: Puerco ruins (pueblo ruins); also collection of petroglyphs
nearby Access: $5/vehicle for entrance into Park Information: Superintendent,
Petrifed Forest National Park, Petrified Forest, AZ 86028. Phone (602)
524-6228.

PUEBLO GRANDE RUINS {Hohokam} (Phoenix, AZ) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: remains of Hohokam village Access: located at Washington and
44th Streets in Phoenix. Information: Museum; Phone 602-495-0900.

TONTO NATIONAL MONUMENT (Salado) (2 mi. e of Roosevelt, AZ) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: cliff dwellings: Upper Ruin, Lower Ruin and Lower Ruin Annex
Access: $4/vehicle entrance fee. Located on SR 88, 2 mi. e of Roosevelt and 28
mi. nw of Globe. Upper Ruin accessable by .5 mile trail. Lower Ruin accessable
only via advance reservation and accompanied by Ranger. Information: Contact
Tonto National Monument, HC 02, Box 4602, Roosevelt, AZ, 85548. Phone
602-467-2241.

TUZIGOOT NATIONAL MONUMENT {Sinagua} (about 2 miles nw of Cottonwood, AZ) [*]

Principal Ruins: 110 room pueblo occupied by Sinagua Indians between 1000 and
1425 A.D. Access: $2/person, open 8am-7pm (June-Aug.), 8-5 (rest of year)
Information: (602) 634-5564.

WALNUT CANYON NATIONAL MONUMENT {Sinagua} [*]

Principal Ruins: 300 dwellings on a series of ledges on a 400-ft. gorge.
Inhabited by Sinagua Indians from 1120-1250. Access: $4/vehicle. Visitor's
Center is 7.5 miles e of Flagstaff on I-40. Some visible from visitors center.
Self-guided trail leads past 25 cliff dwellings. Another trail follows rim.
Information: Visitor's Center open 8-6pm (summer); 8-5 (winter). Contact
Superintendent, Walnut Canyon National Monument, Walnut Canyon Road, Flagstaff,
AZ 86004. Phone (602) 526-3367.

WHITE MOUNTAIN ARCHAEOLOGICAL CENTER (12 mi. n of Springerville, AZ) [NPE]

Principal Ruins: Raven Site (2 pueblos with 800 rooms and 2 kivas) dating from
1000-1450 A.D. [Are these Mogollon?] Access: 12 mi. n or Springerville, AZ on
US 180/666 then e on Springerville Generating Station Rd., then .5 mi. s on
gravel road. Walking tour $3/adult. One-day excavation fee $42/adult.
Information: White Mountain Archeological Center, HC 30, St. Johns, AZ 85936.
Phone (602) 335-5857.

WUPATKI NATIONAL MONUMENT {Sinagua} [***]

Principal Ruins: Wupatki ("Large House") ruin containing more than 100 rooms.
Also a ceremonial amphitheater. Also Citadel, Nalakihu, Lomaki and 3-story
Wukoki ruins, all inhabited from 1100-1225. Access: 35 miles northeast of
Flagstaff off Hwy. 89. Entrance fee $4/vehicle (includes entrance to Sunset
Crater Volcano National Monument). Self-guiding trails. Information: Visitor's
Center open 8am-6pm (June-Aug.); 8am-5pm (rest of year). Contact
Superintendent, Wupatki National Monument, 2717 N. Steves Blvd., Suite #3,
Flagstaff, AZ 86004. Phone (602) 556-7152/7040.

COLORADO

(Note: Telephone area code 303 will change to 970 on April 2, 1995 (except for
Denver metro area).)

ANASAZI HERITAGE CENTER (Dolores, CO) [*]

Principal Ruins: Dominguez ruin (3 rooms and kiva), Escalante ruin (20 rooms
and kiva) Access: off Hwy 184 west of Dolores,CO. No entrance fee. Escalante
ruin is about 1/2 mile away from Heritage Center. Information: Museum/Vistor
Center; Contact Bureau of Land Management, Anasazi Heritage Center, 27501
Highway 184, Dolores, CO 81323. Phone (303) 882-4811.

CHIMNEY ROCK ARCHAEOLOGICAL AREA {Anasazi} (sw of Pagosa Springs, CO) [** NPE]

Principal Ruins: Great House, Guardhouse, Great Kiva (and many other structures
scattered over the area). Access: 3 miles south of U.S. Hwy 160 on Colorado
highway 151 (20 miles southwest of Pagosa Springs). Only available on guide
tours (4 tours per day; $3/adult) mid-May to mid-September. Information: (303)
264-2268.

CROW CANYON ARCHAEOLOGICAL CENTER {Anasazi} (near Cortez, CO) [NPE]

Principal Ruins: Sand Canyon pueblo and others Access: 2 miles n of Cortez on
Hwy 666 then 1.3 mi w on Road L then 1.4 miles s on Country Road 23. Day
programs(9am-4pm) allow hand-on activities. Day programs are $30/adult (lunch
included) - reservations required. Other programs available, but they're not
set up to handle day visitors. Information: Crow Canyon Archaeological Center,
23390 County Road K, Cortez, CO 81321. Phone (303) 565-8975 or 1-800-422-8975.

HOVENWEEP NATIONAL MONUMENT - see under Utah

Part of Hovenweep National Monument is in Colorado, but only dirt road access
is available from Colorado (2 routes of about 25 miles each).

LOWRY RUINS {Anasazi} [*]

Principal Ruins: Lowry ruin (35-room, 2 kiva pueblo) and great kiva, occupied
from around 1060 through 1200 A.D. Access: 9 miles west of Pleasant View (dirt
road). No entrance fee. Information: Area Manager, Bureau of Land Management,
San Juan Resource Area, 701 Camino del Rio, Durango, CO 81301. Phone (303)
247-4082

MESA VERDE NATIONAL PARK {Anasazi} [*****]

Principal Ruins: several cliff dwellings (Cliff Palace, Sunset House, Balcony
House, Spruce Tree House, Step House, Long House), several pueblo ruins, and
some ancient pit house excavations. Cliff Palace and some of the other cliff
dwellings are just incredible. Access: Most ruins are accessible through
self-guided hikes (some are pretty steep), but some ruins are only accessible
through ranger-led hikes (Balcony House requires a climb up a 32-foot ladder
plus crawling through an ancient crawlspace). Good views can be seen from
opposing canyon rims. Bus tours are available certain May through
mid-September. Information: Far View Visitor's Center and Chapin Mesa Museum.
Contact Superintendent, Mesa Verde National Park, Mesa Verde National Park, CO
81330. Phone (303) 529-4461/4475.

UTE MOUNTAIN TRIBAL PARK {Anasazi} (south of Mesa Verde NP) [*** NPE]

Principal Ruins: Tree House; Lion House; Morris V; also kiva at Eagle's Nest.
Many others. Also Ute pictographs also. Access: full day and half-day tours
guided by Ute Mountain Utes are available daily, leaving the Ute Mountain
Visitor Center 22 miles south of Cortez on U.S. Hwy 666. Use your own car, but
make sure you have a full tank of gas (ruins are 40 miles off the paved roads)
and bring lunch and drinking water. Day hikes (guided?) are also available.
Confirmed reservations are required for all tours. Information: Ute Mountain
Tribal Park, Towoac, CO 81224. Phone (303) 565-3751 ext. 282 or 1-800-847-5485.

NEW MEXICO

AZTEC RUINS NATIONAL MONUMENT {Anasazi} (Aztec, NM) [**]

Principal Ruins: Aztec ruin (400-room, 9-kiva pueblo); restored/recreated great
kiva; several other sites not open to public Access: $3/person entrance fee.
Open 8am-6pm June-August; 8am-5pm rest of the year. Information: Visitor's
Center; Contact Superintendent, Aztec Ruins National Monument, P.O.Box 640,
Aztec, NM 87410. Phone (505) 334-6174.

BANDELIER NATIONAL MONUMENT {ancient Pueblos) (near Los Alamos, NM) [***]

Principal Ruins: Tyuonyi (large pueblo), Long House (cliff dwelling),
Ceremonial Cave (and recreated kiva); Stone Lions (still a Indian religious
site); Painted Cave. Frijoles Canyon. Information: Visitor's Center open
8am-6pm June - August, 8am-4:30pm rest of year. Phone (505) 672-3861.

CASAMERO RUINS {Anasazi} (near Prewitt, NM) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: small pueblo (occupied 1000-1125 AD) and unexcavated great
kiva. Access: take Exit 63 off I-40 at Prewitt, then east of exit junction of
US Hwy 66, McKinley County Road 19 leads north to the Plains Escalante
Generating Station. Follow that road 4 miles.

CHACO CULTURE NATIONAL HISTORIC PARK {Anasazi} [*****]

Principal Ruins: Pueblo Bonito, Great Kiva of Casa Rinconada; Chetro Ketl, Una
Vida, Hungo Pavi, Kin Kletso, Casa Chaquita, Pueblo del Arroyo; Also Sun Dagger
Solar/Lunar Observatory (on Fajada Butte - not accessable); over 3.500 recorded
sites (most not accessable) Access: $4/vehicle entrance fee. Access to the Park
is via long dirt roads: From the north, Chaco can be reached by turning off NM
Hwy. 44 at Nageezi and following San Juan County Road 7800 for 11 miles to New
Mexico Hwy 57; the Visitor's center is 15 miles ahead on Hwy 57. From the
south, pick up New Mexico Hwy 57 via Grants or Crownpoint. Both of these routes
include at least 20 miles of unpaved roads. Self-guiding trails explore seven
of the Park's ruins including Pueblo Bonito, Chetro Ketl, Pueblo del Arroyo,
Casa Rinconada, and 3 village sites. Four other trails for day hiking lead into
the back country (permits required). Information: Visitor's Center open 8am -
6pm June-August; 8am-5pm rest of year. Contact: Superintendent, Chaco Culture
National Historic Park, Star Route 4, Box 6500, Bloomfield, NM 87413. Phone
(505) 786-7014.

CORONADO STATE MONUMENT {ancient Pueblos} (near Bernalillo, NM) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: Kuaua Pueblo; reconstructed kiva with murals Access: $2
entrance fee. Located along US Hwy 44, 1 mi. w of Bernalillo. Information:
Phone 505-867-3304.

DITTERT SITE {Anasazi} (about 45 mi. se of Grants, NM) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: small pueblo and kiva, mostly backfilled/covered over Access:
drive 5 miles east of Grants on I-40, then continue 9 miles south on SR 117 to
BLM ranger station (ask directions).

Gila Cliff Dwellings National Monument {Mogollon} (44 mi. n of Silver City, NM)
[* NPE]

Principal Ruins: cliff dwellings (about 40 rooms built circa 1270 AD);
pithouses dating back to around 300 AD. Access: located at the end of SR 15, 44
miles north of Silver City. Information: Phone 505-536-9461. EL MORRO NATIONAL
MONUMENT {Anasazi} (40 mi. w of Grants, NM) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: Atsinna ruin - originally over 500 rooms, all that's been
excavated is around 20 rooms and 2 kivas. Also Inscription Rock (petroglyphs
and grafitti dating back over 500 years) Access: Entrance fee $4/vehicle or
$2/person. Located on SR 53, 40 mi west of Grants and 30 miles east of Zuni,
NM. Information: Contact Superintendent, El Morro National Monument, Rt. 2,
P.O. Box 43, Ramah, NM 87321. Phone 505-783-4226.

HAWIKUH RUIN {Anasazi} (12 mi. s of Zuni Pueblo, NM) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: large in size, but these are mostly collapsed mounds of
rubble. Access: obtain permission to visit the site from the Zuni Tribal Office
(505-782-4481); for direction to the site, call the tribal archeology
department at (505) 782-4814.

JEMEZ STATE MONUMENT {ancient Pueblos} (near Jemez Springs, NM) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: pueblo mounds plus 1621 AD church and monastery Access:
Entrance fee $2. Located on SR 4 just north of Jemez Springs. Information:
Phone 505-829-3530.

PECOS NATIONAL HISTORIC PARK {ancient Pueblos} (near Pecos, NM) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: North Pueblo and South Pueblo Access: $5/vehicle entrance fee.
Park is 2 miles south of Pecos on New Mexico Road 63. self-guiding 1.25 mile
hike; guided tours available on request. Information: Visitors Center open
8am-6pm June-Aug., 8-5 rest of year. Phone (505) 757-6414/6032.

POSHUOUINGA RUINS {ancient Pueblos) (near Abiquiu, NM) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: large pueblo (over 700 ground-floor rooms surrounding 2 large
plazas with a large kiva in larger plaza) Access: located on US Hwy 84 2.5 mi.
south of Abiquiu.

PETROGLYPH NATIONAL MONUMENT {ancient Pueblos} (Albuquerque, NM) [*]

Principal Ruins: over 15,000 petroglyphs (most dating from 1300 AD to 1680 AD,
but some dating back 3000 years) Access: No entrance fee. Several sections in
northwestern Albuquerque. Information: Petroglyph National Monument, P.O. Box
1293, Albuquerque, NM 87103 (Phone (505) 768-3316) or call City of Albuquerque
Division of Open Space at (505) 873-6620.

PUEBLITOS OF DINETAH {ancient Pueblos} (ne of Farmington, NM) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: 8 small pueblos dating from 1715 to 1754. Access: get detailed
directions from BLM; the ruins are only accessable via long drives on dirt
roads. Information: Bureau of Land Management phone 505-761-4505 or
505-327-5344.

PUYE' CLIFF DWELLINGS {ancient Pueblos) (Espanola, NM) [** NPE]

Principal Ruins: combination of cliff dwellings and mesa top pueblos believed
to originally have over 1,000 rooms. Access: $5 admission. 11 miles west of
Espanola via New Mexico Roads 30 and 5 in the Santa Clara Indian Rservation.
Mesa top accessible via gravel road or hiking. Open 9am-6pm. Guided tours
available by reservation. Information: Phone (505) 753-7326.

SALINAS PUEBLO MISSION NATIONAL MONUMENT {ancient Pueblos} (Mountainair, NM) [*
NPE]

Principal Ruins: Gran Quivira, Quarai, Abo Access: No entrance fee.
Information: Visitor Center at Broadway & Ripley Streets in Mountainair. Phone
505-847-2585.

SALMON RUIN {Anasazi} (Bloomfield, NM) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: Salmon ruin (11th century pueblo) Access: $1 admission. 2.5
miles west of Bloomfield via U.S. Hwy 64. Information: (505) 632-2013.

THREE RIVERS PETROGLYPH SITE {Mogollon} (30 mi. n of Alamogordo, NM) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: some 20,000 petroglyphs dating from 900 AD to 1400 AD. Access:
go 30 miles north of Alamagordo on US Hwy 54; turn east at the Three Rivers
intersection and go 5 miles to the site. One trail leads through petroglyphs
and another to the excavated ruins. Information: Phone 505-525-8228.

VILLAGE OF THE GREAT KIVAS {Anasazi} (on Zuni Reservation, NM) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: small (18 room) pueblo with 2 unexcavated great kivas. Access:
located 17 miles from Zuni Pueblo. To visit the site, contact the Zuni Tribal
Office at 505-782-4481 for permission and 505-782-4814 for directions (from
tribal archaeology dept.).

UTAH

ANASAZI INDIAN VILLAGE STATE PARK (Boulder, UT) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: pueblo of 87 currently-excavated rooms, occupied about A.D.
1050 - 1200. Access: $1.50 admission. On Utah road 12. Open 8am-6pm May-Sept.,
8am-5pm rest of year. Information: Phone (801) 335-7308.

BUTLER WASH RUINS {Anasazi} (southeastern Utah) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: cliff dwelling Access: located along SR 95, 10.7 miles west of
its intersection with SR 191. A 1 mile loop trail leads to the ruins overlook.

CANYONLANDS NATIONAL PARK {Anasazi} (near Moab, UT) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: many small ruins plus pictographs sites Access: Paved roads
lead into the Park from SR 211, north of Monticello, NM, and from SR 313, north
of Moab. The only other access to the Park is by jeep trails. Most of the ruins
are along the canyon bottom and are only accessable by jeep trail, by floating
down the Colorado/Green Rivers, or by hiking down. Roadside Ruin is near the
road through the Needles District. Salt Canyon and Ruin Park have ruins (also
Needles District). Fine pictographs panels are visible in the Maze and in
Horseshoe Canyon (aka Barrier Canyon). Entrance fee $4/vehicle or $2/person.
Information: Visitor Centers (in each district) or Moab Chamber of Commerce
Tourist Info Office. Contact Superintendent, Canyonlands National Park, 125 W.
200 South, Moab, UT 84532. Phone 801-259-7164.

EDGE OF THE CEDARS STATE PARK {Anasazi} (Blanding, UT) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: 6 residential and ceremonial complexes inhabited 750 - 1200
A.D. Access: $1.50 admission. Just of U.S. Hwy 191. Information: Museum. Phone
(801) 678-2238/3392.

GRAND GULCH PRIMATIVE AREA {Anasazi} (southeastern Utah) [** NPE]

Principal Ruins: Junction Ruin, Turkey Pen Ruin, Round House, Banister Ruins,
Green Mask Site, FBI Panel, the Big Man Panel, others Access: Permits available
from the Bureau of Land Management's Kane Gulch Ranger Station on SR 261, 6
miles south of that highway's intersection with SR 95. Ruins accessable only to
hikers, backpackers, or horseback riders. Information: Phone 801-587-2141.

HOVENWEEP NATIONAL MONUMENT {Anasazi} [***]

Principal Ruins: 6 sets of ruins: Square Tower Ruins and Cajon Ruins in Utah,
and the Holly, Hackberry Canyon, Cutthroad Castle, and Goodman Point in
Colorado. Access: No entrance fee. The Monument Headquarters is at the Square
Tower area in Utah and is accessible by exiting U.S. Hwy 163 onto Utah Road 262
midway between Blanding and Bluff and continuing 14 miles to Hatch Trading Post
and then 16 miles over non-paved roads to Square Tower. The Square Tower area
involves a 2 mile circular hike around the canyon rim. Other areas are nearby
(within 5 miles), but are not marked by signs on the road. Directions should be
obtained from a Ranger at the Headquarters/Ranger Station. Information:
Contact: Superintendent, Mesa Verde National Park, Mesa Verde National Park, CO
81330. Phone (303) 529-4461.

MULE CANYON AND CAVE TOWER RUINS {Anasazi} (southeastern Utah) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: Mule Canyon Pueblo (12 rooms, 2 kivas, a 2-story tower), Cave
Tower Ruins (6 small towers plus small cliff dwellings) Access: located along
SR 95, 16 miles east of Natural Bridges National Monument and 20 miles west of
the intersection of SR 95 with US Hwy 191. The turnoff to Cave Tower Ruins is
.7 miles east of the Mule Canyon exit.

NATURAL BRIDGES NATIONAL MONUMENT {Anasazi} (southeastern Utah) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: Horsecollar Ruins, several other small cliff dwellings and
pictograph sites. Access: located along I-95, 26 miles east of Fry Canyon andd
42 miles west of Blanding, UT. Several ruins located along White Canyon trail.
Entrance fee $3/vehicle or $1/person. Information: Visitor Center. Contact
Superintendent, Natural Bridges National Monument, Box 1, Lake Powell, UT
84533. Phone 801-259-5174.

SAND ISLAND PETROGLYPH SITE {Anasazi} (2 mi. w of Bluff, Utah) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: hundreds of petroglyphs Access: located along a cliff
bordering the San Juan River 2 miles west of Bluff, on US Hwy 163.

SAN JUAN RIVER RUINS {Anasazi} (southeastern Utah) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: many small ruins and petroglyphs? Access: not accessable by
car. Arrange raft or canoe trip through outfitters in Bluff and Mexican Hat,
UT. In particular, try Wild Rivers Expeditions (800-422-7654) or Recapture
Lodge (801-672-2281) in Bluff. Also, the Crow Canyon Archaeological Center
(800-422-8975) arranges river-rafting trips for its members.

THREE KIVA RUINS {Anasazi} (in Montezuma Canyon in southeastern Utah) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: Three Kiva Pueblo (14 rooms occupied 1000-1300 AD) Access:
located along Montezuma Canyon Road about 15 miles north of Hatch Trading Post
and 23 miles south of the road's intersection with US Hwy 163, south of
Monticello.

WESTWATER RUIN {Anasazi} (near Blanding, UT) [* NPE]

Principal Ruins: Westwater Pueblo (13 ground-level rooms, 5 kivas) Access:
Follow US Hwy 191 south of Blanding for a mile and then turn right on County
Road 232 and continue 2 miles to the ruins overlook.

MUSEUMS

Many of the sites mentioned above have a museum incorporated into their
Visitor's Center. There are several museums in the area that have good
collections of pottery and other artifacts excavated from the various ruin
sites:

   * Arizona State Museum, Tuscon, AZ [NPE]
   * Museum of Anthropology, Eastern Arizona College, Thatcher, AZ [NPE]
   * Museum of Northern Arizona, Flagstaff, AZ
   *  Phoenix Museum of History, Phoenix, AZ [NPE]
   *  Maxwell Museum of Anthropology, Albuquerque, NM [NPE]
   * Museum of Indian Arts and Culture, Albuquerque, NM
   *  Western New Mexico University Museum, Silver City, NM [NPE]

FOR MORE INFORMATION

There are several good books on Anasazi culture and on the ruins themselves:

Ferguson, William M. and Arthur H. Rohn, Anasazi Ruins of the Southwest in
Color, University of New Mexico Press, 5th paperback printing 1991, 296pp.,
ISBN 0-8263-0874-0, $29.95.

Noble, David G., _Ancient Ruins of the Southwest: An archaeological Guide,
Northland Press, Flagstaff AZ. The 1991 edition is $14.95.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[Image]
