
I'm proud to announce version 2.12.0 of cc65. cc65 is a complete cross
development package for 65(C)02 systems, including a powerful macro assembler,
a C compiler, linker, librarian and several other tools.

cc65 has C and runtime library support for many of the old 6502 machines,
including

  - The Commodore VIC20, C16/C116, C64, C128, C116, Plus/4, 510 (aka P500),
    the 600/700 family and newer PET machines (not 2001).

  - The Apple ][ and successors.

  - The Atari 8 bit machines.

  - GEOS for the C64 and C128.

  - The Nintendo Entertainment System (NES).

  - The Supervision console.

  - The Oric Atmos.

  - The Lynx Console.

The libraries are fairly portable, so creating a version for other 6502s
shouldn't be too much work.

This is mostly a bugfix release, with larger changes in just a few places. The
latter is especially true for the Apple ][ libraries, which have undergone
major changes done by Oliver Schmidt.


As usual I will provide the complete sources and several binary packages,
including RPMs for RedHat Enterprise Linux 5. Please note that there are
separate RPMs for the compiler proper, the docs, and the target specific
libraries. To develop for one of the predefined target systems you need the
compiler RPM package *and* one of the target machine packages. Be sure to
download the documentation package if you're new to cc65.

Precompiled binaries for DOS, OS/2 and Windows are available in ZIP archives.
As with the RPM packages, you need the package for the development system
(Windows or whatever.) *and* one or more of the target machine packages, plus
optionally the doc package.

There's also a windows installer package. The target specific libraries and
header files are selectable as components from within the installer dialogue.

All packages are available from the MU software FTP server:

        ftp://ftp.musoftware.de/pub/uz/cc65/

More information on cc65 can be found on the cc65 web page at

     	http://www.cc65.org/

There is also a mailing list for discussing cc65 related issues (programming,
suggestions, bugs, ...). See

        http://www.cc65.org/#List

for information on how to subscribe to this list.



While I'm the main developer of cc65, it is actually a joint effort. I would
like to thank the target library developers, all the people on the cc65
mailing list, all those sending suggestions and feedback, and even those
bugging me for a new stable release:-) The CREDITS file is probably
incomplete, but you know who you are.

Thank you!


       	Uz


