                   [Image]  [Image] [Image] [Image]  [Image]

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

   * Game System                                                       [Image]
   * A Typical Game
   * Packaging
   * Card Distribution
   * Mythos Product Summary

Mythos Update

Mythos® is a new collectable card game based on the extraordinary tales of
horror written by Howard Phillips Lovecraft. Lovecraft is an acknowledged
master of the horror story, inspiring such modern authors as Stephen King and
Clive Barker.

Chaosium Inc. is a book and game publisher with a long tradition of excellent
art and award-winning game design, winning more than 50 design and excellence
awards since we first began publishing in 1975. Our primary objective was to
develop a game system featuring ease of play, the "feel" of a traditional card
game, and a lively pace. Finally we have for the past 14 years developed a
loyal following of both horror and game fans through our award-winning Call of
Cthulhu roleplaying system and horror fiction line.

Look for Mythos to arrive in stores in April. Follow this link for comments
from a playtester.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GAME SYSTEM

In designing Mythos, we first reviewed the play styles of traditional card
games such as rummy and gin, noting in particular the flow of play and the
involvement and interaction of the players. Our goal was to give Mythos a
similar feel. Each player is constantly involved. You never have to wait while
another player finishes a long turn sequence. Each player gets one play on his
or her turn, and no one is ever out of the game before the game ends.

The heart of Mythos lies in the Adventure Cards. These are short stories in a
narrative format that indicate the cards you must play before you can earn the
points given on the card. They provide a pattern to your card play that other
players may try to decipher.

The rules for Mythos are simple and complete. A game is finished in about an
hour with plenty of room for complex play strategies, deck building variations,
and great replay value.

Much of the Mythos replay value lies in the more than 30 different Adventures
included in the card set, and also with our Create-Your-Own Adventure card.
Chaosium offers both horror fiction and role-playing scenarios for our Call of
Cthulhu game that can readily be distilled into Mythos Adventure Cards with, of
course, the consent of your opponent. This will provide an unlimited variety of
different Mythos games.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A TYPICAL GAME

Each player first chooses his or her Investigator, shuffles their cards, and
draws a hand of 13 cards.

Each player develops the resources of their Investigator, playing Ally cards,
Tomes, Artifacts, and Spells. You also create a Story Deck, a pile of cards
containing the Locations visited and other cards that have gone out of play.
You have a number of Event cards to plague your opponent with, including
Phobias, Rioting Townsfolk, Looting Thieves, Madmen with Shotguns, Nightmares,
Catastrophes, and Epidemics.

You also portray that aspect of the Mythos that attacks the other players.
Monster cards are played face-down in a Mythos Threat. Once card play has ended
in a round, then Combat begins.

During combat, each player beginning with the Investigator with the lowest
remaining Sanity Point commits the Monsters in his or her Threat to attack
their opponent. Then, each player commits Allies to defend their Investigator
(Allies not committed will not suffer damage). Spells are then cast and then
combat is resolved.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PACKAGING

The Mythos game begins with our Starter Display. Each display features 10 decks
of cards, and there are 10 displays in each carton.

We looked at various kinds of stock on which we could print the cards, and
decided to use the more expensive poker stock. This paper resists the crimping
suffered by other card games, it resists wear better, and it has the right sort
of feel when playing the game.

Each Starter Deck, then, contains 60 playing cards printed on poker stock, a 32
page rulesbook, and a unique Mythos feature: a double-sized Investigator Card.

The Investigator Card serves to focus each player, indicating just where to
play your cards on the table. It represents the "you" in a Mythos game -- that
personality who confronts the horrors and denizens of the Mythos. Each
Investigator Card offers the player the choice of two Investigators, each
illustrated in full color and printed back-to-back. No two players in a Mythos
game can use the same Investigator. There are 18 different Investigators on 9
Investigator Cards. COLLECTORS' NOTE: each display for our third booster set
includes a free complete set of all the Investigator Cards.

* BOOSTERS: while we were hard at work designing the Mythos system, we also
designed three booster sets. These are being printed at the same time as the
starter decks, so that we can assure you of their timely release.

The first Mythos booster is titled The Expeditions of Miskatonic University,
which will be released along with the starter decks. Here we expand the world
of Mythos and explore the resources of Miskatonic University: its professors
and noted students and the various tomes found in its vaunted library. Also,
this set features many locations and allies from Europe, various new spells,
and the luxury of travel aboard the quality ships of the time.

The second booster looks to the South Pacific and the fabled island of R'lyeh.
Titled Cthulhu Rising, it includes exotic islands, weird Mythos locales such as
R'lyeh, the deep one city of Y'ha Nthlei or the library on Celeano. Dread
Cthulhu himself lurks here somewhere!

Finally, the third booster set that we will release is Legends of the
Necronomicon. Here, the Middle East, and particularly the exotic city of Cairo,
comes to life. Literally. This set of cards introduces the concept of
travelling into the past to meet the greatest wizards of old including Abdul
Alhazrad, also known as the Mad Arab, and the author of that dread tome
sometimes known as the Necronomicon. As a bonus, each Legends of the
Necronomicon display includes one complete, unfolded set of all nine
Investigator Cards.

* CARD STOCK: we are using Zanders poker stock with a water-based varnish for
the best playing-card feel and resistance to card crimping and wear. The
Investigator Card measures 5"x3.5" and is folded in half and tucked into the
box. It is printed four colors on two sides, providing two different
investigators in each deck.

* ART: Some of the best artists in the cards, game, and comics industries have
madly scrawled all over their walls at the Institution. Alphabetized they are:
Salvatore Abbinanti, Chris Adams, Thomas Garrett Adams, Stephen Barnwell, Mike
Blanchard, John Bridges, Dennis J. Calero, Tim Callender, Barry Chambers, Alan
M. Clark, C. Brent Ferguson, Mark Ferrari, Scott M. Fischer, Earl Geier, Lee
Gibbons, Justin Hampton, Ovi Hondru, Andrew T. Kalichack, Michael Kellner,
Drashi Kendup, Scott Kirchner, Brian Krank-McLean, Meghan Krank-McLean, Todd
Lockwood, Heather McKinney, Jeff Menges, Lee Moyer, Roger Raupp, Sam Shirley,
R. Wayt Smith, John Snyder, Tom Sullivan, Joseph Sutliff, Strephon Taylor,
Susan Van Camp, Eric Vogt, and Jason Voss.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CARD DISTRIBUTION

There are 400 total cards in the array used for the Mythos Starters and the
three boosters. One hundred of these cards are rare, one hundred are uncommon,
and two hundred are common.

The Mythos starter decks are created from an array of 200 cards and the nine
Investigator Cards. In each starter deck is found 6 rare cards, 18 uncommon
cards, and 36 common cards, plus one Investigator Card and a 32-page rulesbook.

Each booster contains 60 new cards plus a blend of the cards that appear in the
Mythos starter decks, at the ratio of 2 rare cards, 4 uncommon, and 7 common
cards for a total of 13 cards per pack.

The rarity level of the cards is identical across the Mythos starters and the
boosters. A rare card found in the starter decks is printed in the same
frequency as a rare card found only in a booster. Otherwise, a "rare" card from
a booster would be more rare (there are fewer of them) than a "rare" card in
the starters.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MYTHOS PRODUCT SUMMARY

STARTER DECK DISPLAY            #1300           10 decks        $89.50
  Single Deck Product Number    #1300-1          1 deck         $8.95
EXPEDITIONS OF MISKATONIC U.    #1301           36 packs        $106.20
  Single Pack Product Number    #1301-1          1 pack         $2.95
CTHULHU RISING                  #1302           36 packs        $106.20
  Single Pack Product Number    #1302-1          1 pack         $2.95
LEGENDS OF THE NECRONOMICON     #1303           36 packs        $106.20
  Single Pack Product Number    #1303-1          1 pack         $2.95

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                [Image] [Image]

Go to top of page
