                               The Cthulhu Mythos

In many of Lovecraft s stories, he refers to beings that are deity-like aliens.
One of the most frequently mentioned of these is Cthulhu, a huge tentacled
monstrosity that is imprisoned in a sunken city in the South Pacific.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             Supernatural Entities

Azathoth

 ...I started with loathing when told of the monstrous nuclear chaos beyond
angled space which the Necronomicon had mercifully cloaked under the name of
Azathoth.  ( The Whisperer in Darkness )

 Eventually there had been a hint of vast, leaping shadows, of a monstrous,
half-acoustic pulsing, and of the thin, monotonous piping of an unseen
flute but that was all. Gilman decided he had picked up that last conception
from what he had read in the Necronomicon about the mindless entity Azathoth,
which rules all time and space from a curiously environed black throne at the
centre of Chaos.  ( The Dreams in the Witch House )
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Chaugnar Faugn

 Some were the figures of well-known myth gorgons, chimaeras, dragons, cyclops,
and all their shuddersome congeners. Others were drawn from darker and more
furtively whispered cycles of subterranean legend black, formless Tsathoggua,
many-tentacled Cthulhu, proboscidian Chaugnar Faugn, and other rumoured
blasphemies from forbidden books like the Necronomicon, the Book of Eibon, or
the Unaussprechlichen Kulten of von Junzt.  ( The Horror in the Museum )

Chaugnar Faugn is the creation of Frank Belknap Long.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cthulhu

If I say that my somewhat extravagant imagination yielded
simultaneous pictures of an octopus, a dragon, and a human
caricature, I shall not be unfaithful to the spirit of the thing. A pulpy,
tentacled head surmounted a grotesque and scaly body with rudimentary wings... 
( The Call of Cthulhu )

There are some who are of the opinion that Lovecraft borrowed the name
Cthulhu  from Sumerian mythology. This is a hoax perpetrated by the Avon
Necronomicon which combines elements of Sumerian mythology and the Lovecraft
myths. The name  Cthulhu  was purely an invention of Lovecraft s.

Oddly, much debate surrounds the pronunciation of  Cthulhu . The pronunciation
used by most is perpetuated by the  Call of Cthulhu  roleplaying game by
Chaosium, Inc., whose books have  Can you say kuh-THOO-loo?  printed on their
backs. Several Lovecraftian scholars prefer to pronounce it  Cloo-loo  based on
references in Lovecraft s revision tales. I choose to take a middle ground and
aspirate both  h's, with a result similar to  kt hoo-lhoo .
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dagon

 Vast, Polyphemus-like, and loathsome, it darted like a stupendous monster of
nightmares to the monolith, about which it flung its gigantic scaly arms, the
while it bowed its hideous head and gave vent to certain measured sounds....
Once I sought out a celebrated ethnologist, and amused him with peculiar
questions regarding the ancient Philistine legend of Dagon, the Fish-God; but
soon perceiving that he was hopelessly conventional, I did not press my
inquiries.  ( Dagon )

 Poor Matt Matt he allus was agin  it tried to line up the folks on his side,
an  had long talks with the preachers no use they run the Congregational parson
aout o  taown, an  the Methodist feller quit never did see Resolved Babcock,
the Baptist parson, agin Wrath o  Jehovy I was a mighty little critter, but I
heerd what I heerd an  seen what I seen Dagon an  Ashtoreth Belial an 
Be lzebub Golden Caff an  the idols o  Canaan an  the Philistines Babylonish
abominations Mene, mene, tekel, upharsin... All in the band of the
faithful Order o  Dagon an  the children shud never die, but go back to the
Mother Hydra an  Father Dagon what we all came from onct...  ( The Shadow Over
Innsmouth )

Dagon is mentioned in the Bible on several occasions: Judges 16:23, I Samuel
5:2-7, and I Chronicles 10:10.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hastur

 I found myself faced by names and terms that I had heard elsewhere in the most
hideous of connexions Yuggoth, Great Cthulhu, Tsathoggua, Yog-Sothoth, R lyeh,
Nyarlathotep, Azathoth, Hastur, Yian, Leng, the Lake of Hali, Bethmoora, the
Yellow Sign, L mur-Kathulos, Bran, and the Magnum Innominandum and was drawn
back through nameless aeons and inconceivable dimensions to worlds of elder,
outer entity at which the crazed author of the Necronomicon had only guessed in
the vaguest way.... There is a whole secret cult of evil men (a man of your
mystical erudition will understand me when I link them with Hastur and the
Yellow Sign) devoted to the purpose of tracking them down and injuring them on
behalf of the monstrous powers from other dimensions.  ( The Whisperer in
Darkness )

Perhaps you were expecting a quote about a fire elemental? These are the only
places in Lovecraft s fiction where he mentions Hastur. Lovecraft borrowed the
term  Hastur  from Robert W. Chambers, who had, in turn, borrowed it from
Ambrose Bierce. In Bierce s  Ha ta the Shepherd , Hastur is  the god of
shepherds . Chambers borrowed the term and used it as the home city of Cassilda
and Camilla, but also used it as the name for a groundskeeper in "The
Demoiselle d'Ys".
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nyarlathotep

 And it was then that Nyarlathotep came out of Egypt. Who he was, none could
tell, but he was of the old native blood and looked like a Pharaoh. The
fellahin knelt when they saw him, yet could not say why. He said he had risen
up out of the blackness of twenty-seven centuries, and that he had heard
messages from places not on this planet. Into the lands of civilisation came
Nyarlathotep, swarthy, slender, and sinister, always buying strange instruments
of glass and metal and combining them into instruments yet stranger. He spoke
much of the sciences of electricity and psychology and gave exhibitions of
power which sent his spectators away speechless, yet which swelled his fame to
exceeding magnitude. Men advised one another to see Nyarlathotep, and
shuddered. And where Nyarlathotep went, rest vanished; for the small hours were
rent with the screams of a nightmare.  ( Nyarlathotep )

 What his fate would be, he did not know; but he felt that he was held for the
coming of that frightful soul and messenger of infinity s Other Gods, the
crawling chaos Nyarlathotep.  ( The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath )

 There was the immemorial figure of the deputy or messenger of hidden and
terrible powers the  Black Man  of the witch cult, and the  Nyarlathotep  of
the Necronomicon.  ( The Dreams in the Witch House )

 There are references to a Haunter of the Dark awaked by gazing into the
Shining Trapezohedron, and insane conjectures about the black gulfs from which
it was called. The being is spoken of as holding all knowledge, and demanding
monstrous sacrifices.  ( Haunter of the Dark )
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shub-Niggurath

 "Ia! Shub-Niggurath!" ( The Last Test,  The Dunwich Horror,  The Mound,
 Medusa's Coil,  The Horror in the Museum,  The Thing on the Doorstep, and
 The Diary of Alonzo Typer )

 One squat, black temple of Tsathoggua was encountered, but it had been turned
into a shrine of Shub-Niggurath, the All-Mother and wife of the the
Not-to-Be-Named-One. This deity was a kind of sophisticated Astarte, and her
worship struck the pious Catholic as supremely obnoxious.  ( The Mound )

 "Ia! Shub-Niggurath! The Black Goat of the Woods with a Thousand Young!" ( The
Whisperer in Darkness,  The Dreams in the Witch House,  The Man of Stone )
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tsathoggua

 This was a squat, plain temple of basalt blocks without a single carving, and
containing only a vacant onyx pedestal.... It has been built in imitation of
certain temples depicted in the vaults of Zin, to house a very terrible black
toad-idol found in the red-litten world and called Tsathoggua in the Yothic
manuscripts. It had been a potent and widely worshipped god, and after its
adoption by the people of K n-yan had lent its name to the city which was later
to become dominant in that region. Yothic legend said that it had come from a
mysterious inner realm beneath the red-litten world a black realm of
peculiar-sensed beings which had no light at all, but which had had great
civilisations and mighty gods before ever the reptilian quadrupeds of Yoth had
come into being.  ( The Mound )

 They ve been inside the earth, too there are openings which human beings know
nothing of some of them are in these very Vermont hills and great worlds of
unknown life down there; blue-litten K n-yan, red-litten Yoth, and black,
lightless N kai. It s from N kai that frightful Tsathoggua came you know, the
amorphous, toad-like god-creature mentioned in the Pnakotic Manuscripts and the
Necronomicon and the Commoriom myth-cycle preserved by the Atlantean
high-priest Klarkash-Ton.  ( The Whisperer in Darkness )

 Black Tsathoggua moulded itself from a toad-like gargoyle to a sinuous line
with hundreds of rudimentary feet...  ( The Horror in the Museum )

Tsathoggua is the creation of Clark Ashton Smith.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Yog-Sothoth

 Rais d Yog-Sothoth thrice and was ye nexte Day deliver d.  ( The Case of
Charles Dexter Ward )
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                  Other Beings

Deep Ones
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ghouls

The illustration at left is by Hannes Bok.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hounds of Tindalos

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mi-Go, the Fungi from Yuggoth

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shoggoths

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This page is compiled and maintained by Donovan K. Loucks.

