

                          How I Wrote the Tarzan Books

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Image]
I have often been asked how I came to write. The best answer is that I needed
the money. When I started I was 35 and had failed in every enterprise I had
ever attempted.
     I was born in Chicago. After epidemics had closed two schools that I
attended, my parents shipped me to a cattle ranch in Idaho where I rode for my
brothers who were only recently out of college and had entered the cattle
business as the best way of utilizing their Yale degrees. Later, I was dropped
from Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts; flunked examinations for West
Point; and was discharged from the regular army on account of a weak heart.
Next, my brother Henry backed me in setting up a stationery store in Pocatello,
Idaho. That didn't last long either.
     When I got married in 1900 I was making $15 a week in my father's storage
battery business.
     In 1903 my oldest brother, George, gave me a position on a gold dredge he
was operating in the Stanley Basin country in Idaho. Our next stop was in
Oregon, where my brother Henry was managing a gold dredge on the Snake River.
We arrived on a freight wagon, with a collie dog and $40. Forty dollars did not
seem like much to get anywhere with, so I decided to enter a poker game at a
local saloon and run my capital up to several hundred dollars during the night.
When I returned at midnight to the room we had rented, we still had the collie
dog. Otherwise, we were not broke.
     I worked in Oregon until the company failed, and then my brother got me a
job as a railroad policeman in Salt Lake City. We were certainly
poverty-stricken there, but pride kept us from asking for help. Neither of us
knew much about anything that was practical, but we had to do everything
ourselves, including the family wash. Not wishing to see Mrs. Burroughs do work
of that sort, I volunteered to do it myself. During those months, I half soled
my own shoes and did numerous odd jobs.
     Then a brilliant idea overtook us. We had our household furniture with us,
and we held an auction which was a howling success. People paid real money for
the junk and we went back to Chicago first class. The next few months
encompassed a series of horrible jobs. I sold electric light bulbs to janitors,
candy to drug stores, and Stoddard's Lectures from door to door. I had decided
I was a total failure, when I saw an advertisement which indicated that
somebody wanted an expert accountant. Not knowing anything about its I applied
for the job and got it.
     I am convinced that what are commonly known as "the breaks," good or bad,
have fully as much to do with one's success or failure as ability. The break I
got in this instance lay in the fact that my employer knew even less about the
duties of an expert accountant than I did.
     Next I determined there was a great future in the mail-order business, and
I landed a job that brought me to the head of a large department. About this
time our daughter Joan was born.
     Having a good job and every prospect for advancement, I decided to go into
business for myself, with harrowing results. I had no capital when I started
and less when I got through. At this time the mail-order company offered me an
excellent position if I wanted to come back If I had accepted it, I would
probably have been fixed for life with a good living salary. Yet the chances
are that I would never have written a story, which proves that occasionally it
is better to do the wrong thing than the right.
     When my independent business sank without a trace, I approached as near
financial nadir as one may reach. My son, Hulbert, had just been born. I had no
job, and no money. I had to pawn Mrs, Burroughs' jewelry and my watch in order
to buy food. I loathed poverty, and I should have liked to have put my hands on
the man who said that poverty is an honorable estate. It is an indication of
inefficiency and nothing more. There is nothing honorable or fine about it. To
be poor is quite bad enough. But to be poor without hope . . . well, the only
way to understand it is to be it.
     I got writer's cramp answering blind ads, and wore out my shoes chasing
after others. At last l got placed as an agent for a lead pencil sharpener. I
borrowed office space, and while subagents were out, trying unsuccessfully to
sell the sharpener, I started to write my first story.
     I had good reason for thinking I could sell what I wrote. I had gone
thoroughly through some of the all-fiction magazines and I made up my mind that
if people were paid for writing such rot as I read I could write stories just
as rotten. Although I had never written a story, I knew absolutely that I could
write stories just as entertaining and probably a lot more so than any I
chanced to read in those magazines.
     I knew nothing about the technique of story writing, and now, after
eighteen years of writing, I still know nothing about the technique, although
with the publication of my new novel, Tarzan and the Lost Empire, there are 31
books on my list. I had never met an editor, or an author or a publisher. l had
no idea of how to submit a story or what I could expect in payment. Had I known
anything about it at all I would never have thought of submitting half a novel;
but that is what I did.
     Thomas Newell Metcalf, who was then editor of The All-Story magazine,
published by Munsey, wrote me that he liked the first half of a story I had
sent him, and if the second half was as good he thought he might use it. Had he
not given me this encouragement, I would never have finished the story, and my
writing career would have been at an end, since l was not writing because of
any urge to write, nor for any particular love of writing. l was writing
because I had a wife and two babies, a combination which does not work well
without money.
     I finished the second half of the story, and got $400 for the manuscript,
which at that time included all serial rights. The check was the first big
event in my life. No amount of money today could possibly give me the thrill
that first $400 check gave me.
     My first story was entitled, "Dejah Thoris, Princess of Mars." Metcalf
changed it to "Under the Moons of Mars." It was later published in book form as
A Princess of Mars.
     With the success of my first story, l decided to make writing a career,
though I was canny enough not to give up my job. But the job did not pay
expenses and we had a recurrence of great poverty, sustained only by the thread
of hope that I might make a living writing fiction. I cast about for a better
job and landed one as a department manager for a business magazine. While I was
working there, I wrote Tarzan of the Apes, evenings and holidays. I wrote it in
longhand on the backs of old letterheads and odd pieces of paper. I did not
think it was a very good story and I doubted if it would sell. But Bob Davis
saw its possibilities for magazine publication and I got a check . . . this
time, l think, for $700.
     I then wrote The Gods of Mars, which I sold immediately to the Munsey
Company for All-Story. The Return of Tarzan, which I wrote in December, 1912,
and January, 1913, was rejected by Metcalf and purchased by Street & Smith for
$1,000 in February, 1913. That same month John Coleman, our third child, was
born, and I now decided to devote myself to writing.
     We were a long way from home. My income depended solely upon the sale of
magazine rights. I had not had a book published at that time, and therefore no
book royalties were coming in. Had I failed to sell a single story during those
months, we would have been broke again. But I sold them all.
     That I had to work is evidenced by a graph that I keep on my desk showing
my word output from year to year since 1911. In 1913, it reached its peak, with
413,000 words for the year.
     I had been trying to find a publisher who would put some of my stuff into
book form, but I met with no encouragement. Every well-known publisher in the
United States turned down Tarzan of the Apes, including A.C. McClurg & Co., who
finally issued it, my first story in book form.
     It's popularity and its final appearance as a book was due to the vision
of J. H. Tennant, editor of the New York Evening World. He saw its
possibilities as a newspaper serial and ran it in the Evening World, and the
result was that other papers followed suit. This made the story widely known,
and resulted in a demand from readers for the story in book form, which was so
insistent that A.C. McClurg & Co. finally came to me after they rejected it and
asked to be allowed to publish it.

And that's how I became a writer!

                                    [Image]

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THE WASHINGTON POST, OCT. 27, 1929
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                     Edgar Rice Burroughs - Creator of Tarzan
