

                         Protecting the Author's Rights

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Image]
When I started writing, a little more than twenty years ago, my literary
experience had not progressed much beyond the harness section of
Sears-Roebuck's catalogue; and I did not know the name of the editor of that. I
doubt that I knew the name of any editor, and I certainly was not acquainted
with one personally; to the best of my knowledge I did not even know a single
writer. I thought authors were long-haired nuts with Windsor ties and
halitosis, and editors grouchy old gentlemen with fuzzy white beards and
spectacles. That was before I had met such men as Don Kennicott, Edwin Balmer,
Ray Long, and Bob Davis.
     As to writers, I do not know much about them even yet; but judging by the
lengths some of them go to obtain publicity I feel that I was not far wrong in
my original estimate of their mentality, and a lot of them look as though they
had halitosis.
     But what I knew about writers and editors was encyclopedic compared with
what I knew about any phase of the profession of literature. Doubtless there
are reviewers who will opine that I have not greatly increased my knowledge in
the ensuing twenty years -- but it is not of the technic of writing that we are
concerned at the moment; it is with a certain aspect of the practical rather
than the artistic side of writing that I wish to deal.
     Among the innumerable things of which I was ignorant were the various
rights inherent in literary productions. Vaguely, in a hazy, muddy sort of way,
I realized that magazines and books were different; and so, when I sent out my
first manuscript, I insisted upon retaining the book rights. Not knowing about
any of the other rights, I generously passed them all over to the magazine. Of
course there may be some question as to the degree of my generosity inasmuch as
I did not know that I was passing over anything and since, at the time, they
were quite valueless.
     I had sold a number of stories before I awoke to the fact that I had been
parting with something that might, some day be valuable; and thereafter I
offered fix serial rights only, a description which has since talk the form of
first American and Canadian magazine rights only. This latter is one which I
advise all writer to adopt, since it precludes the possibility of later
missunderstandings in relation to second magazine righi and definitely retains
for the writer his newspaper rights.
     In connection with the rights which I gave away there later occurred one
of those things which could have happened in a few lines of business and which
constitute, with numerous other pleasant incidents, the basis of my belief that
writing is as altogether as satisfactory a means of livelihood as one may find.
Long after these rights became valuable the magazines that had acquired them
through my ignorance reassigned them to me without question and without
payment; and in addition to this every magazine that has ever copyrighted one
of my stories in its name has given me a proper legal assignment of such
copyright.
     Of late years I have been fortunate in having been able to arrange for the
copyrighting of magazine stories in my own name or that of my corporation; but
to those who are unable to make such an arrangement with the magazines for
which they write, I suggest that they insist that immediately upon the
completion of the copyright by the magazine it be legally assigned to them.
     I have found that there is no better aid in the protection of an author's
rights in his work than the recordation of the copyright in his own name or, as
in my case, the name of a corporation which he controls. This is especially
true in the protection of motion picture rights and the marketing of them, as
producers insist, for their own protection, upon determining the ownership of
the copyright, and often employ attorneys to consult the records at Washington
before they will enter into a contract for the motion picture rights in a
story.
     Furthermore, there are some unscrupulous producers or agents who are
constantly checking copyright ownership at Washington in the hope of buying up
copyrights in valuable material the copyright to which does not stand in the
name of the author.
     But owning the copyright does not necessarily give you all the rights in
your work if you have been careless in the transferring of rights and licenses
to others. I have already mentioned the necessity of thinking of your newspaper
and second magazine rights when you despose of your first magazine rights.
Twenty years ago I thought I was getting all there was out of it when sold all
the serial rights in a story for a quarter of a cent a word, but since then I
have sold second magazine rights in those same stories for many times what all
the former rights brought me then.
     I have never taken my work very seriously and I am afraid that I never
shall, but I take the business end of it quite seriously. It was only
inexperience that drew me into my first errors. Of course I have made a lot
since, but I endeavor not to make the same one twice. however, I am still
constituted much as I was twenty years ago, when the idea of actual cash
dramatic rights existing in "Tarzan of the Apes" would have given me nothing
more serious than a laugh. Yet only a few years after it was published I
entered into a contract for its production in England, where it ran with
greater or less (mostly less) success in the provinces for some time. It was
not a hit, but it might have been, and it may some day lie. What you are
writing today may be a hit some time. It has certain potential values which you
should protect.
     Equally remote were the possibilities of profiting from foreign and
translation rights. A kindly providence who looks after infants, inebriates,
and young authors, preserved my foreign and translation rights to me.
Afterward, my foreign royalties were, at one time, greater than my United
States royalties. It paid me well to own them. Therefore, never underrate the
value of any of your rights; laugh at them, if you will; but hang on to them.
     Since those simple days of twenty years ago, when I blithely gave away a
fortune in rights that I did not know existed, many changes have taken place,
bringing new rights with them. Today I am closing a radio contract covering the
dramatic presentation of my stories over the air. What a far cry from second
magazine rights. Within a year I have seen a television clause inserted in one
of my motion picture contracts; and today I am watching my television rights
with as great solicitude as I watch any of the others, for long before my
copyrights expire television rights will be worth a fortune. Possibly not mine,
but some one's -- perhaps yours. I am going to hang onto mine, however; and at
least I can get a smile out of them now, if I never get anything else.
     Perhaps in my radio contract I shall insist upon the reservation to me of
the interplanetary rights. Why not? Radio rights and sound and dialogue rights
would have seemed as preposterous twenty years ago; and with my intimate
knowledge of conditions on other worlds, I, of all men, should anticipate the
value of broadcasting Tarzan to the eager multitudes that swarm our sister
planets. In addition to which I am accorded another smile in a world none too
generous with smiles since Wall Street started weeping down all our backs.
     In some instances writers are now compelled to fight for certain rights,
particularly those who enter into motion picture contracts; and this is wrong.
Such things should be as much a matter of standard practice as are the efforts
of motion picture producers to falsify royalty accounts.
     Perhaps, when the Authors' League gets the Vestal copyright bill off its
chest, as it may during the next fifty-six years, it will have time to devote
to other things; and then, let us hope, it may negotiate the adoption of
standard practices upon the part of all the various markets wherein writers
sell their wares. All rights should be clearly and definitely defined so that
there may be no misapprehension nor confusion concerning their interpretation.
For example, our term serial rights is too general in its significance; the
word serial should be abandoned and publication substituted for it. Then we
would have: First magazine publication rights, second magazine publication
rights, newspaper publication rights, book publication rights; and everyone
would know what the other fellow was talking about.
     It is something that we should give thought to, if for no other reason
than to impress upon our minds the fact that in entering into agreements we
should be quite certain that every reference to rights mentioned in the
agreement is based upon a clear understanding by all parties of the definition
of such rights, and that such a definition is embodied in the contract.
     In closing, I should like to leave another thought with you. It is based
upon a practice I have been trying to establish (not always successfully) in
relation to certain of my own rights; it might be called the reversion of
rights.
     Owners lease houses, real estate, yachts, and other possessions for
definite periods of time, at the end which all rights in the property revert to
them. There are certain rights in literary productions that may be leased,
rather than sold outright, to the great advantage of the author; and if the
principle may be gradually established by the insistence of authors in a
position to insist and with the moral aid of the Authors' League and others
concerned with the welfare of writers, eventually will be accepted by the
buyers of these rights as a matter of common practice.
     There are many reasons why such a plan may be advantageous to authors
without working any hardship on the original lessee. The latter is interested
primarily and almost wholly in immediate profits; he would a not buy these
rights on the prospects of profits to be derived ten years later. Therefore, he
is not paying for the profits that may be derived subsequent to a reasonaable
earning life of the property and, consequently, should not own them.
     The principal advantages to the author are the possibly remote contingency
of increased value after a lapse of years and the ability to take these rights
off the market upon the termination of the lease. This latter is especially
important in the matter of motion picture and radio rights, and will be in
television rights when they develop.
     Sales of motion picture rights are often embarrassed, complicated, or
estopped by the natural fear on the part of a potential purchaser that the
owner of the picture rights in another story by the same author will reissue it
for the purpose of reaping the benefits of expensive exploitation of the later
picture, at the same time competing with the new picture in the exhibitor
market. Doubtless, similar conditions will arise in connection with radio and
television rights.
     Three years should be the limit of radio contracts, at least until we have
gained greater knowledge of this field through experience; five to ten years
should be the limit of motion picture contracts, most of which can be
negotiated on a seven year basis. We may safely leave the duration of
television and interplanetary rights to the future.
     In any event, watch all of your rights all of the time; they are the basis
of your entire literary estate. You will find plenty of people willing and
anxious to steal them, and in remote corners of the earth, too. I have had
rights purloined in Italy, Russia, and India, and, of course, New York; but
naturally a man cannot be expected to watch all the thieves on this planet
when, so much of his time is spent on Mars and Venus . . .

                                    [Image]

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     Beloved by small boys, emulated by growing lads, and sighed over on
     occasion by adults, Tarzan of the Apes remains today the symbol of the
     back-to-the-primeval spirit that gives little boys the nightmare and
     either sends their elder brothers mooning up the stairs to day dream, or
     ejects them whooping out the front door looking for a dog to chase.
          Eighteen years ago, Edgar Rice Burroughs playfully conceived "Tarzan
     of the Apes." He did it with no more African experience than came to him
     as department manager of Sears-RoeBuck, and later treasurer of the
     American Battery Co.
          Today, Tarzan is in the magazines, cartoon strips, novels,
     newspapers, and on the radio, and stage. Besides the long Tarzan series
     Mr. Burroughs has written "Thuvia, Maid of Mars," "The Warlord of Mars,"
     and in fact a complete series of adventures in love, war, and death on
     Mars. His character Tarzan, one can honestly say, has been pressed into
     the consciousness of the nation.

     --------------------------------------------------------------------------
     THE WRITERS 1932 YEAR BOOK & MARKET GUIDE
     --------------------------------------------------------------------------

                        Edgar Rice Burroughs - Creator of Tarzan
